Truly, truly, I tell you that I want you to give to the poor; however, be careful not to do it in front of others just to be noticed by them; otherwise, you will not receive any reward from your Father in heaven.
So, when you give to the poor, do not announce it with trumpets, like the hypocrites do in the synagogues and on the streets, so that people can praise them. Truly, I tell you, they already have their reward.
But when you give to the poor, don’t let your left hand know what your right hand is doing; 
So that your giving remains a secret; and your Father, who sees what is done in secret, will reward you openly.
And when you pray, do not be like the hypocrites, for they love to stand and pray in the synagogues and on the street corners to be seen by others. Truly, I tell you, they already have their reward.
But you, when you pray, go into your room, shut the door, and pray to your Father in secret; and your Father, who sees what is hidden, will reward you openly.
And when you pray, do not use meaningless repetitions like the pagans, because they think they will be heard for their many words.
Do not be like them, for your Father knows what you need before you ask Him.
This is how you should pray: Our Father in heaven, may your name be honored.
May your will be done on earth as it is in heaven.
And forgive us our debts, as we forgive those who owe us.
And do not let us fall into temptation, but rescue us from evil.
For the kingdom, the power, and the glory belong to you forever. Amen.
For if you forgive others their offenses, your heavenly Father will also forgive you;
But if you do not forgive others, neither will your Father forgive you.
Also, when you fast, do not look gloomy like the hypocrites, for they disfigure their faces to show others that they are fasting. Truly, I tell you, they already have their reward.
But when you fast, anoint your head and wash your face;
So that it will not be obvious to others that you are fasting, but only to your Father, who is in secret; and your Father, who sees what is done in secret, will reward you openly.
Do not store up treasures for yourselves on earth, where moth and rust destroy, and thieves break in and steal;
But store up treasures for yourselves in heaven, where neither moth nor rust destroys, and where thieves do not break in or steal.
For where your treasure is, there your heart will be also.
The eye is the lamp of the body; if your eye is good, your whole body will be full of light.
But if your eye is bad, your whole body will be full of darkness. If, then, the light within you is darkness, how great is that darkness!
No one can serve two masters; either you will hate one and love the other, or you will be devoted to one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and money.
Now, after Jesus spoke these words, he looked at the twelve he had chosen and said to them: Remember what I have said. For you are the ones I have chosen to serve this people. Therefore, I say to you, do not worry about your life, what you will eat or drink; or about your body, what you will wear. Is not life more than food, and the body more than clothing?
Look at the birds of the air; they do not sow, reap, or gather into barns, and yet your heavenly Father feeds them. Are you not more valuable than they?
Which of you can, by worrying, add a single hour to your life?
And why do you worry about clothes? Consider how the lilies of the field grow; they do not labor or spin; 
Yet I tell you that not even Solomon in all his splendor was dressed like one of these.
Now if God clothes the grass of the field, which is here today and thrown into the fire tomorrow, will he not much more clothe you, you of little faith?
So do not worry, saying, What shall we eat? or, What shall we drink? or, What shall we wear?
For your heavenly Father knows that you need all these things.
But seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things will be given to you as well.
Therefore, do not worry about tomorrow, for tomorrow will worry about itself. Each day has enough trouble of its own.
