Jesus says: Don’t judge others; ask God for guidance; be cautious of false prophets—He promises salvation to those who follow the Father's will—Reference Matthew 7. About A.D. 34.
When Jesus finished speaking, He turned back to the crowd and said: Truly, I tell you, do not judge others, so that you won't be judged.
Because the way you judge others is how you will be judged, and the way you measure it out will be measured back to you.
Why do you notice the small problem in your brother's eye, but you don’t see the big problem in your own eye?
How can you say to your brother: Let me remove the small problem from your eye, when you have a big problem in your own eye?
You hypocrite, first remove the big problem from your own eye; then you will be able to see clearly to help your brother with their small problem.
Do not give what is holy to those who don’t appreciate it, and don’t throw your valuable things in front of pigs, because they will just trample them and turn on you.
Ask, and you will receive; seek, and you will find; knock, and the door will be opened for you.
For everyone who asks receives; the one who seeks finds; and to the one who knocks, the door will be opened.
Which of you, if your son asks for bread, would give him a stone?
Or if he asks for fish, would give him a snake?
If you, even though you are flawed, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your Father in heaven give good things to those who ask him?
So, treat others as you want to be treated, because this sums up the law and the teachings of the prophets.
Enter through the narrow gate; for the gate is wide, and the path is broad that leads to destruction, and many people choose to go that way;
But the gate is narrow, and the way is tight that leads to life, and only a few find it.
Be on the lookout for false prophets. They may seem harmless, but inside, they are dangerous.
You will recognize them by what they produce. Do people pick grapes from thorn bushes, or figs from thistles?
In the same way, every good tree produces good fruit, but a bad tree produces bad fruit.
A good tree can’t produce bad fruit, and a bad tree can’t produce good fruit.
Every tree that does not produce good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire.
So, you will know them by what they produce.
Not everyone who calls me "Lord, Lord" will enter the kingdom of heaven, but only the one who does the will of my Father in heaven.
Many will say to me on that day: "Lord, didn’t we prophesy in your name, cast out demons in your name, and perform many amazing works in your name?"
And I will tell them plainly: I never knew you; go away from me, you who do wrong.
So, everyone who hears these words of mine and puts them into practice is like a wise person who built their house on solid rock—
When the rain fell, the floods came, and the winds blew and beat against that house, it did not fall, because it was built on a solid foundation.
But everyone who hears these words of mine and does not put them into practice is like a foolish person who built their house on sand—
When the rain fell, the floods came, and the winds blew and beat against that house, it fell, and it was a terrible crash.
