Jesus instructed his disciples to bring Him some bread and wine.
While the disciples went to get the bread and wine, He told the crowd to sit down on the ground.
Once the disciples returned with the bread and wine, Jesus took the bread, broke it, blessed it, and gave it to the disciples, instructing them to eat.
After they had eaten and were satisfied, He told them to share with the crowd.
He then told the disciples that one of them would be chosen and given the power to break bread, bless it, and distribute it to the members of His church, for those who would believe and be baptized in His name.
They must continue to do this as I have done, breaking and blessing the bread just like I did for you.
This is to remind you of my body, which I have shown to you. It serves as a testimony to the Father that you always remember me. If you remember me, my Spirit will always be with you.
After saying this, He instructed His disciples to take the cup of wine, drink from it, and also give it to the crowd so they could drink.
They followed His instructions, drank, and were satisfied; then they gave the wine to the crowd, who also drank and were filled.
After this, Jesus told the disciples: You are blessed for what you have done, for this fulfills my commandments and testifies to the Father that you are willing to follow my instructions.
You will do this for those who repent and are baptized in my name, remembering my blood, which I shed for you, to witness to the Father that you always remember me. If you do remember me, my Spirit will be with you.
I command you to do these things. If you keep doing them, you are blessed, for you are built upon my rock.
But anyone among you who does anything more or less than this is not on my rock but on a shaky foundation; when troubles come, they will fall, and the gates of hell await them.
So, you are blessed if you keep my commandments, which the Father asked me to give you.
Truly, I say to you, always watch and pray, so you are not tempted by the devil and led away.
Just as I have prayed among you, so you should pray within my church, among those who repent and are baptized in my name. I am the light; I have set an example for you.
After saying this to His disciples, He turned back to the crowd and said:
Listen, I say to you, always watch and pray so you do not fall into temptation; for Satan wants to have you and sift you like wheat.
So you need to always pray to the Father in my name;
Whatever you ask the Father in my name, believing it is right, it will be given to you.
Pray in your families to the Father, always in my name, so that your wives and children are blessed.
You should gather together often, and don’t prevent anyone from joining you when you meet, allowing them to come to you.
Instead, pray for them, and do not cast them out; if they come to you often, pray for them to the Father in my name.
So, let your light shine for the world to see. I am the light that you should show—what you have seen me do. You have witnessed me praying to the Father.
You see that I have told none of you to leave, but I have commanded you to come to me so that you can feel and see; you should do the same for the world, and anyone who breaks this command will be led into temptation.
Now, when Jesus finished saying these things, He looked again at the disciples He had chosen and said:
Listen, I say to you, I give you another commandment, and then I need to go to my Father to fulfill other commandments He has given me.
Now, here is the commandment I give you: Do not allow anyone to partake of my flesh and blood unworthily when you administer it;
For anyone who eats and drinks my flesh and blood unworthily brings judgment upon themselves; therefore, if you know someone is unworthy, you should prevent them.
However, do not cast them out from your midst, but serve them and pray for them to the Father in my name; if they repent and are baptized in my name, then you may welcome them and administer my flesh and blood to them.
But if they do not repent, they will not be included among my people, to protect my people, for I know my sheep, and they are counted.
Nonetheless, do not cast them out of your places of worship; you should continue to minister to them because they may return, repent, and come to me sincerely, and I will heal them; you will help bring salvation to them.
Therefore, keep these teachings I have given you so that you do not fall under condemnation; woe to anyone the Father condemns.
I give you these commandments because of the disagreements that have been among you. Blessed are you if you do not have disagreements among you.
Now I go to the Father, as it is necessary for your sake that I should go to Him.
After Jesus finished these sayings, He touched each of His chosen disciples, one by one, until He had touched them all and spoke to each of them.
The crowd did not hear what He said, so they did not record it; but the disciples recorded that He gave them the power to confer the Holy Ghost. I will later show you that this record is true.
When He had touched all of them, a cloud came and covered the crowd so they could not see Jesus.
While they were covered, He left them and ascended into heaven. The disciples saw it and recorded that He ascended again into heaven.
