In the final days, Zion and its communities will be established, and Israel will be gathered with compassion and kindness—they will succeed—Refer to Isaiah 54. Around A.D. 34.
Then what has been prophesied will happen: Sing, O woman who has never given birth; start singing and shout, you who have never had a child; because there will be more children from the abandoned than from those who are married, says the Lord.
Make your living space larger, and let your tents stretch out; do not hold back, lengthen your ropes and strengthen your pegs;
Because you will spread out to the right and to the left, and your descendants will take over the nations and repopulate the deserted cities.
Do not be afraid, for you will not be humiliated; do not be confused, for you will not be disgraced; you will forget the shame of your youth and will no longer recall the disgrace of your widowhood.
Because your creator, your protector, is the Lord of Hosts; and your Savior, the Holy One of Israel—He is called the God of the entire earth.
For the Lord has called you as a woman deserted and troubled, like a young bride who was rejected, says your God.
For a brief moment I abandoned you, but I will gather you back with great compassion.
For a short time I turned away in anger, but I will show you everlasting kindness and mercy, says the Lord who redeems you.
This is like the waters of Noah to me, because just as I promised that the waters of Noah would never flood the earth again, I promise that I will not be angry with you.
Though the mountains may disappear and the hills may be taken away, my kindness will never leave you, nor will the agreement of my peace be taken from you, says the Lord who has mercy on you.
O you who are distressed, tossed about and without comfort! Look, I will adorn your stones with beautiful colors and lay your foundations with sapphires.
I will make your windows out of agates, your gates from precious stones, and your borders with delightful gems.
All of your children will be taught by the Lord, and great will be the peace of your children.
You will be established in righteousness; you will be far from oppression because you will not fear, and from terror because it will not approach you.
Look, they will gather against you, but it will not be by my hand; whoever gathers against you will fall because of you.
Look, I created the smith who forges the coals in the fire and who makes tools for his work; and I also created the destroyer to ruin.
No weapon forged against you will succeed; and any tongue that accuses you in judgment, you will silence. This is the heritage of the Lord's servants, and their righteousness comes from me, says the Lord.
