Well now, let me reckon this fer ya, here’s what I gotta say: 
I’m a-gonna chit chat with y’all again, my dear kinfolk, about this here good branch I been talkin’ ‘bout.
Now, ya see, the promises we got are flesh and blood promises; reckon I been shown that a whole heap of our young’uns gonna kick the bucket ‘cause they don’t believe, but ya know what? God’s gonna be real kind to a lot of folks, and our kiddos will be brought back, so they can see the real deal ‘bout their Redeemer.
So, like I said, it’s gotta be somethin’ real important that Christ—‘cause an angel told me just last night that’s his name—should come to the Jews, them folks who’s actin’ all wicked-like; and they gonna go and crucify him—‘cause that’s just the way it’s gotta be for our God, and no other nation on this ol’ earth would dare do that to their God.
‘Cause if all them other folks saw them mighty miracles, they’d turn right ‘round and know he’s their God.
But down in Jerusalem, ‘cause of them preacher tricks and all kinds of wickedness, they gonna harden their hearts against him, and that’s why they gonna nail him to a cross.
So, ‘cause of all that mess, they gonna face destruction, famines, pestilences, and blood gonna be spilled; and the ones that don’t get wiped out gonna be scattered all over the place.
But hold on now, here’s what the Lord God says: When the time comes that they’ll finally believe in me, that I’m Christ, then I made a promise to their daddies that they’ll get back in the flesh here on this earth, to the lands that belong to ‘em.
And it’s gonna happen that they’ll be gathered back from all their wanderin’, from the islands out there in the sea and every corner of the earth; and the nations of the Gentiles gonna look pretty good in my eyes, says God, as they bring ‘em back to their homeland.
Yep, them kings of the Gentiles gonna be like daddies to ‘em, and the queens will be like mommas; thus, the Lord’s got some mighty fine promises for them Gentiles 'cause he said so, and who’s gonna argue with that?
But don’t forget, God says this land here’s gonna be yours, and them Gentiles will be blessed on it.
And this here land’s gonna be a place of freedom for the Gentiles, and there ain’t gonna be no kings tryin’ to rule over ‘em.
I’m a-gonna protect this land from all them other nations.
And anyone who goes pickin’ a fight with Zion, well, they gonna meet their end, says God.
Now, if someone tries to put a king against me, they gonna meet the same fate, ‘cause I, the Lord, the king of heaven, will be their king, and I’ll shine a light for ‘em forever for those who listen to my words.
So listen up, ‘cause I gotta keep my promises I made to the folks down here: while they’re livin’, I gotta get rid of all them sneaky dark deeds, all the murders, and the nasty stuff.
That bein’ said, anyone who fights against Zion, be they Jew or Gentile, whether they’re free or bound, man or woman, they’ll be done for; ‘cause they’s the ones who’re like the whore of the earth, and if you ain’t with me, you’re against me, says our God.
Now, I’ll see my promises through that I made to the folks down here, while they’re livin’—
So, my dear kin, this is what God says: I’m gonna put some trials on your descendants by the hands of the Gentiles; yet, I’ll soften them Gentile hearts so they’ll be like daddies to y’all, and the Gentiles gonna be blessed and counted among the house of Israel.
And I’m gonna set this land apart for your folks and whoever’s countin’ as your kin forever, ‘cause it’s a chosen piece of ground, says God to me, above all other places; and I want all folks livin’ there to worship me, says God.
And now, my dear relatives, since our merciful God’s given us such mighty knowledge about these matters, let’s not forget him, and shake off our sins, and hold our heads high, ‘cause we ain’t been thrown away; sure, we got booted from our home, but the Lord’s led us to a better spot, and the sea’s our road, puttin’ us on an isle of the sea.
But the Lord’s promises to those on the isles of the sea sure are big; so when it talks about isles, that means there’s gotta be more than just this one, and they’re livin’ there too, just like us.
Now just lookie here, the Lord God’s been leadin’ folks away from the house of Israel from time to time, ‘cause that’s how he wants it. And now, aren’t we lucky? The Lord remembers all them folks who’ve been cut off, so he remembers us too.
So lift up your spirits, and remember y’all are free to make your own choices—to pick between everlasting death or eternal life.
Now, my dear siblings, make peace with God’s will, not the devil’s or them fleshly desires; and remember, once you’re at peace with God, it’s only by God’s grace that you get saved.
And may God raise you up from death through the resurrection’s power, and also from everlasting death by the atonement’s power, so y’all can join in the eternal kingdom of God, and sing his praises through that divine grace. Amen.
