The word that Isaiah, the son of Amoz, saw concerning Judah and Jerusalem:
And y’all, it’s gonna happen in the last days, when the mountain of the Lord’s house is set up real high like on top of them mountains, and it’s gonna be lifted up above the hills, and all them nations are gonna flow on over to it.
And many folks gonna say, “Come on now, let’s head on up to the mountain of the Lord, to the house of the God of Jacob; He gonna teach us His ways, and we gonna walk in His paths; ’cause outta Zion gonna come the law, and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem.
And He gonna judge among the nations, and He gonna set folks straight: they gonna turn their swords into plow-shares and their spears into pruning-hooks—ain’t no nation gonna lift up sword against another, and they ain't gonna learn to fight no more.
Oh house of Jacob, come on now, let’s walk in the light of the Lord; yeah, come on, ‘cause y’all done gone off track, every last one of ya to your wicked ways.
So, Lord, You done left Your people, the house of Jacob, ‘cause they got all mixed up with the east, listenin’ to those fortune-tellers like the Philistines, and they real pleased with the kids of strangers.
Their land’s packed full of silver and gold, and there ain’t no end to their treasures; their land’s also filled up with horses, and they got plenty of chariots too.
Their land’s just crowded with idols; they be worshippin’ what their own hands done made, all that stuff they crafted themselves.
And the lowly fella ain’t bowin’ down, and the highfalutin one ain’t humble, so don’t you go forgivin’ him.
Oh you wicked ones, go on and crawl into the rocks, and hide yourself in the dust, ‘cause the fear of the Lord and the glory of His majesty gonna knock you down.
And it’s gonna happen that the proud looks of man gonna be brought low, and the haughtiness of men gonna be humbled, and the Lord gonna stand alone exalted on that day.
‘Cause the day of the Lord of Hosts comin’ on fast for all nations, yep, everybody; yep, for the proud and lofty, and for everyone who thinks too highly of themselves, and they gonna be brought down.
And yeah, the day of the Lord gonna come right upon all them tall cedars of Lebanon, ‘cause they’re high and mighty; and upon all the oaks of Bashan;
And upon all them high mountains, and all the hills, and every nation thinkin’ they high and lifted up, and upon every people;
And upon every tall tower, and every fenced-up wall;
And upon all them ships of the sea, and all them ships of Tarshish, and all them pretty pictures.
And the pride of man gonna be bowed down, and the haughtiness of men gonna be made humble; and the Lord alone gonna be exalted on that day.
And them idols? He gonna wipe them out completely.
And they gonna run into the holes of the rocks, and into the caves of the earth, ‘cause the fear of the Lord gonna come upon them and the glory of His majesty gonna smite ‘em, when He stands up to shake the earth real bad.
On that day, a fella gonna toss away his idols of silver, and his idols of gold, that he done made for himself to worship, giving ‘em over to the moles and the bats;
To hide in the cracks of the rocks, and on the tops of the jagged rocks, ‘cause the fear of the Lord gonna come upon them and the majesty of His glory gonna smite ‘em, when He stands up to shake the earth real hard.
Just stop relying on man, whose breath is just in his nostrils; what’s he gonna mean to ya anyway?
