Well now, let me tell ya, the Lord, that big ol’ Lord of Hosts, He’s fixin' to take away all that support from Jerusalem and Judah, all their bread and water too—
He’s takin’ out the strong fellas, the warriors, the judges, the prophets, the wise folks, and the ol’ timers;
The captain of fifty, them respected men, the counselors, the crafty artisans, and those smooth talkin’ speakers.
And I reckon He’s gonna make little ones their rulers, like babies bein’ in charge and whatnot.
Folks are gonna be all troubled, one bein’ all snarky towards the other, with kids actin' all high and mighty towards the elders, and the lowly givin' the honorable a hard time.
When one man grabs his brother from their daddy’s house and says: Ya got some clothes, why don’t you be our boss, and don’t let this mess happen—
That fella's gonna swear up and down: I ain't gonna be a healer; there ain’t no food nor clothes in my house; don’t make me the boss of these folks.
Jerusalem’s in a heap of trouble, and Judah’s hit rock bottom, ‘cause their mouths and their actions are all against the Lord, makin' Him mad as a hornet.
The way they look tells on ‘em, shoutin’ their sins out loud like Sodom, and they can’t hide it none. Oh my, what a pitiful state, for they’ve brought this mess onto themselves!
Tell the good folks that everything’s just fine; they’ll be munchin’ on the fruits of their good works.
Oh, but the wicked, they’re in for a rough ride; they gonna be in a world of hurt, ‘cause what they’ve earned is comin’ right back at ‘em!
And my people, it’s the kids givin’ ‘em a hard time, and the women runnin’ the show. Oh my, the ones who are supposed to lead ya, they’re leadin’ ya straight to trouble and makin’ a mess of your paths.
The Lord’s standin’ up to argue, ready to judge the folks.
He’s fixin' to take those old timers and the princes to court; y’all been eatin’ up the vineyard and robbin' them poor folks right in your own houses.
What’s wrong with ya? You’re breakin’ my people down and grindin’ the faces of the poor, says the Lord God of Hosts.
On top of that, the Lord says: ‘Cause them daughters of Zion are struttin’ around all high and mighty, walkin’ with their necks stretched out and their eyes all flirtatious, walkin’ and scufflin’ like they own the place, makin' all that racket with their feet—
Well, the Lord's about to smack ‘em with a scab right on their heads, and He’s gonna expose their private parts too.
On that day, the Lord's gonna take away all their fancy trinkets, their ornaments and those round thingamajigs like the moon;
The chains and bracelets, and them mufflers;
The bonnets, the leg ornaments, the headbands, the tablets, and the ear-rings;
The rings and nose bling;
The fancy clothes, the mantles, the wimples, and those crispin’ pins;
The mirrors, the fine linens, the hoods, and the veils.
And lemme tell ya, instead of sweet smells, there gonna be a stench; instead of nice belts, there’ll be rags; instead of well-done hairdos, bald heads; and instead of nice fancy stuff, sackcloth, burnin’ instead of lookin’ fine.
Your men gonna fall by the sword, and your mighty ones in battle.
And her gates, they’re gonna wail and moan; she’ll be laid low and just sittin' on the ground.
