Well, back in the days of King Ahaz, y’know, that feller who was the son of Jotham and grandson of Uzziah, Rezin, the king of Syria, and Pekah, that boy who was the son of Remaliah from Israel, they decided to march on up to Jerusalem lookin’ for a fight, but bless their hearts, they just couldn’t get the upper hand.
Word got around to David’s clan, sayin': Looks like Syria’s buddy-buddy with Ephraim. And let me tell ya, it shook Ahaz up somethin’ fierce, just like the trees tremblin’ in a strong wind.
Then, the Lord spoke to Isaiah and told him, “Go on now, meet up with Ahaz and bring your boy Shearjashub along, over by that end of the upper pool down by the fuller’s field.”
And tell him: “Listen here, don’t get all worked up and scared; don’t you worry ‘bout them two smolderin’ firebrands stirrin’ up trouble, the temper of Rezin and his Syrian pals, and that Remaliah’s boy.”
‘Cause you see, Syria, Ephraim, and Remaliah’s fella, they all got up to some mischievous talkin', schemin’ against ya, sayin’:
“Let’s march on up to Judah and give it a hard time, see if we can tear it down and put a king right smack in the middle, yeah, the son of Tabeal.”
But good Lord, here’s what God’s got to say about it: It ain’t gonna happen, it ain't gonna stick.
Now, the head honcho over there in Syria is Damascus, and that Rezin fella runs the show over in Damascus; and in sixty-five years, Ephraim gonna be shattered, just like that, won’t even be a people no more.
And Ephraim’s got Samaria as their head, and Samaria’s run by Remaliah’s son. Now, y’all best believe, ‘cause if ya don’t, you ain't gonna stand firm.
But the Lord wasn’t done yet, so He had more words for Ahaz, sayin’:
“Go on now, ask the Lord your God for a sign; could be down deep in the ground or way up high in the sky.”
But Ahaz snapped back, “I ain’t askin’ for nothin’, and I ain’t gonna put the Lord to the test.”
And the Lord said: “Now, listen up, house of David; it ain’t a small task to wear out folks, but do y’all really wanna wear me out too?”
So here’s the deal, the Lord’s gonna give ya a sign—Lookey here, a virgin’s gonna have a baby boy, and His name’s gonna be Immanuel.
He’s gonna munch on butter and honey, that way He’ll learn how to know what’s good and what’s not.
‘Cause before that little one learns to pick the good stuff over the bad, the land you can’t stand is gonna be left empty without both kings.
The Lord’s fixin’ to bring some days upon you, your people, and your daddy’s kin, somethin’ we ain’t seen since Ephraim got outta dodge from Judah and the Assyrian king rolled on in.
Now, when that day comes, the Lord’s gonna whistle for the fly sittin' way down in Egypt and for the bee buzzin' in Assyria.
And they’s gonna show up and rest in those desolate valleys, and all them cracks in the rocks, and all the thorny bits, and bushes all around.
That same day, the Lord’s gonna use a hired razor, sittin’ back beyond the river with that Assyrian king, to shave the head and feet hair; might even take the beard too.
And guess what, in that same day, a man’s gonna be feedin’ a lil’ calf and two sheep;
And it’s all ‘cause there’s gonna be so much milk, that butter’s gonna be on the menu; butter and honey’s what’s gonna be eaten by everyone left in that land.
When that day comes, every spot where there used to be a thousand vines worth a thousand silver coins, it’s all gonna turn into briars and thorns.
Folks gonna show up with bows and arrows, ‘cause everything’s gonna end up bein’ briars and thorns, all of it.
And all them hills you plowed with a mattock ain’t gonna give y’all any fear of bramble or thorn; instead, it’s gonna be for sendin’ out oxen and trample for the little critters.
