Well now, Christ's gonna be a stone folks keep trippin’ over and a rock that's real troublesome—Y’all best be seekin’ the Lord instead of listenin’ to them peepin’ wizards—Look to the law and what they testify ‘bout fer some direction—Just check out Isaiah 8, y’all.
Then, the good Lord told me: Grab a big ol' scroll, and write on it with a fella's pen ‘bout Maher-shalal-hash-baz.
I got me some trusty folks to back me up, Uriah the priest and Zechariah, the son of that Jeberechiah fella.
I went to the prophetess, and shoot, she got herself knocked up and had a boy. That’s when the Lord told me: Name him Maher-shalal-hash-baz. 
Now, this little tyke ain’t gonna know how to cry “My daddy” or “My mama” ‘fore them riches of Damascus and all the loot from Samaria get snatched away from the king of Assyria.
And the Lord spoke to me again, sayin’:
Since these folks ain’t wantin’ the gentle waters of Shiloah, and they’re all happy ‘bout Rezin and Remaliah’s boy;
Well, lookie here, the Lord’s fixin’ to bring up a whole river on ‘em, mighty and full, even the king of Assyria and all his splendor; and he’s gonna cover all the channels, overflow all the banks.
He’s gonna march right through Judah; he’ll spill over and go past up to your neck; and the stretch of his wings is gonna fill up your whole land, O Immanuel.
Y’all gather ‘round now, and you’re gonna get all smashed up; listen up out there in faraway lands; strap yourselves in, ‘cause you gonna get broken up; strap yourselves in, and you gonna get broken up.
Y’all huddle up and plot, but it ain’t gonna amount to nothin’; say what you will, but it ain’t gonna stick; ‘cause God’s with us.
For the Lord told me good and firm, and laid it on me not to walk the same path as these folks, sayin’:
Don't y’all go callin’ it a confederacy when these folks start blabbin’ ‘bout a confederacy; don't you fear what they fear, nor get all scared.
Make the Lord of Hosts your sanctuary, and let Him be the one you fear, and the one that makes ya tremble.
He’ll be a safe place for ya, but also a rock folks trip over and a stone of offense for both houses of Israel, a trap and a snare for the folks in Jerusalem.
A whole bunch of ‘em will trip up, fall down, get broken, caught up, and taken away.
Wrap up the testimony, seal up the law tight with my disciples.
I’m gonna be waitin’ on the Lord, who’s hidin’ His face from Jacob’s house, and I’ll be on the lookout for Him.
Look here, me and the kiddos the Lord’s given me are for signs and wonders in Israel, comin’ from the Lord of Hosts, who’s settin' up shop in Mount Zion.
And when they say to ya: Go seek out them who got familiar spirits, and them wizards mumblin’ and peepin’—Ain’t folks supposed to be seekin’ their God for the livin’ instead of tryin’ to hear from the dead?
To the law and to the testimony; if they ain't talkin’ right, it’s ‘cause they ain’t got no light in ‘em.
And they’ll be hustlin’ through it, barely hangin’ on and all hungry; when they start feelin’ that hunger, they’re gonna get all riled up, curse the king and their God, and be lookin’ up.
And they’ll be lookin’ at the earth and seein’ trouble, darkness, gloomy anguish, and be driven straight into darkness.
