Well now, redemption comes from the Holy Messiah, y’all. Gotta understand that havin’ the freedom to choose (that’s agency, darlin’) is just downright crucial to livin’ and movin’ forward—Adam took a tumble so folks could be, and now, folks can choose between livin’ free and chasin’ eternal life.
Alrighty, Jacob, I’m fixin’ to talk to you now. You’re my firstborn, and I reckon you’ve been through a heap of trouble out there in the wild. You’ve seen a lot of heartache and sorrow 'cause your brothers ain’t treated ya right.
But listen here, Jacob, my firstborn in the wild, you know just how great God is; He’s gonna turn your troubles into somethin’ good.
So your soul’s gonna be blessed, and you’ll be safe hangin’ with your brother Nephi, servin’ your God with all your days. I’m sure of it, you’re redeemed, all thanks to the goodness of your Redeemer; you’ve seen that in the right time He’s gonna come and save folks.
You’ve caught a glimpse of His glory when you was young; thus, you’re blessed just like those He’ll serve in the flesh; the Spirit ain’t changed—yesterday, today, and forever. The road's been paved since man fell, and salvation’s a free gift.
Folks been taught enough to know what's good and what's evil. Laws been handed down to us, and by those laws, nobody gets justified; or, through the law, folks get cut off. Yep, they got cut off by earthly laws, and by spiritual laws, they’re missin’ out on the good and endin’ up miserable forever.
So, redemption comes from the Holy Messiah, 'cause He’s loaded with grace and truth.
Look here, He’s offerin’ Himself as a sacrifice for sin, fulfillin’ the law for all them with broken hearts and humble spirits; and for anyone else, well, those law ends just ain’t gonna work.
So it’s mighty important we share this news with the folks on this planet, let ’em know nobody can stand before God unless it’s thanks to the grace, mercy, and goodness of the Holy Messiah, who laid down His life in the flesh, took it back through the Spirit’s power, and made resurrection happen, bein’ the first to rise.
That’s why He’s the firstfruit for God, ‘cause He gonna speak up for all of us folks; and them that got faith in Him will be saved.
And 'cause of His intercession, everybody gets a shot at comin' to God; they’re standin’ in His presence, ready to be judged by the truth and holiness that’s in Him. So, the law ends given by the Holy One bringin' down the punishments—those punishments stand against the happiness that’s also in play, to meet the law's end—
It’s gotta be; there’s gotta be opposin’ forces in every lil' thing. If there weren’t none, my firstborn in the wild, righteousness wouldn’t even exist, nor wickedness, nor holiness or misery, nor good or bad. So, everything’s gotta be a mixin’ of some sort; if it was just one thing, it’d just lay there dead, not livin’ or dyin’, not corrupted nor incorrupt, not happy nor miserable, just senseless.
So, it must’ve been created for nothin’ at all; otherwise, what’s the point of makin’ it? Our good Lord's wisdom and eternal plans would get wrecked, along with His power and mercy and justice.
If you’re sayin’ there ain’t no law, then you’re also sayin’ there ain’t no sin. If there’s no sin, then there ain’t no righteousness. If there ain’t no righteousness, then shoot, there ain’t no happiness. If there’s no righteousness or happiness, that means no punishment nor misery. If none of that exists, then there’s no God. And if there’s no God, well then honey, we ain’t here, neither is the good ol’ earth; ‘cause there couldn’t have been nothin’ created to be or to act upon; so every lil' thing would just vanish.
Now, listen up, my boys, I’m tellin’ y’all this for your own good; there is a God who’s made all things—heavens, earth, and everything in ‘em, things that do stuff and things that get done to.
And to get His eternal plans rollin’ with man after creatin’ our first folks, the critters, and the birds flyin’ high, it just had to include opposin’ things; even that forbidden fruit standin’ against the tree of life; one’s sweet as peaches and the other’s bitter.
So, the Lord God gave man the right to act for himself. So, man can’t act unless he’s drawn to one side or the other.
And me, Lehi, from what I’ve read, reckon I gotta assume an angel of God fell from heaven, and that made him a devil, 'cause he went after evil things in God’s sight.
And since he hit rock bottom and is a miserable old soul now, he was out to drag down all of humanity too. So, he whispered to Eve, that ol’ serpent, the devil himself, father of all lies, said: "Go on, eat that forbidden fruit, y’all won’t die; you’ll be like God, knowin’ good and evil."
After Adam and Eve tasted that fruit, they got booted from the garden of Eden, had to work the land.
And they've been havin’ babies; yep, the whole family tree of all the earth.
The lives of man lasted longer, all thanks to God’s will, so they could repent while still kickin’ it in the flesh; their time got stretched, keepin' in line with God’s commandments. He commanded that all men need to repent; guided 'em to see they was lost 'cause of their folks' mess-ups.
And now, look here, if Adam hadn’t messed up, he wouldn't have fallen; he’d still be kickin’ it in the garden. Everything made would’ve stayed just like it was when it rolled off the Creator’s table, and they’d be here forever, never endin’.
And they wouldn’t have no kiddos; so they’d be in a state of innocence, knowin’ no joy 'cause they didn’t know nothin’ 'bout misery; doin’ no good 'cause they ain’t know nothin’ 'bout sin.
But hey, it’s all been done with the good sense of Him who knows everything.
Adam fell so that folks could be; and folks are here so they can find joy.
And the Messiah shows up when the time is right, to redeem mankind from that whole fall deal. And since they’re set free from it all, they’re free ain’t never comin’ back, knowin’ good from evil—actin’ for themselves without bein’ acted upon, except when the law lays down the hammer on that great and final day, just like God said.
So, folks are free in the flesh; and all things are givin’ to 'em that are good for man. And they can choose liberty and eternal life, through the big Mediator for all, or they can pick captivity and death, all thanks to the devil’s power; he wants everybody to be as miserable as he is.
And now, my boys, I hope y’all keep your eyes on the great Mediator; listen to His big commandments; stick to His words, and choose eternal life, just like the Holy Spirit wants you to;
And don’t go for eternal death, fallin’ for the flesh and the bad junk that comes with it, givin’ the devil’s spirit strength to drag you down to hell, lettin’ him rule you in his own little kingdom.
I’ve shared a bit of wisdom with y’all, my sons, in my last days of keepin' watch; and I’ve picked the good side, just like the prophet said. Ain’t nothin’ more on my mind except for your everlasting well-being. Amen.
