Well now, listen close, 'cause here's what it says: A shoot's gonna pop outta Jesse’s family tree, and a little sprout's gonna grow from his roots.
And the Spirit of the Lord's gonna settle on him, bringin' along wisdom and understandin', good advice and some good ol’ strength, plus knowledge and a healthy respect for the Lord.
He’ll be quick to get what’s what ‘round the Lord; he ain’t gonna judge folks just by what he sees or hears.
No sir, he’s gonna look out for the poor and treat the meek right, and he'll put a hurtin' on the wicked just by speakin' and with the breath of his lips.
He's wearin' righteousness like a belt, and he's wrapped up in faithfulness.
Even the wolf’s gonna hang out with the lamb, and the leopard’s gonna chill with the kid; a calf, a young lion, and a fattened critter will all lay down together, and a little child will lead 'em.
The cow and the bear are gonna graze together, let their young ones snooze side by side; and a lion’s gonna munch on grass like it’s hay.
Even a little baby’s gonna play where the asp is, and the weaned child'll put his hand right on the den of the cockatrice.
There ain’t gonna be no harm nor destruction on my holy mountain, ’cause the whole earth will be filled with the knowledge of the Lord, just like the waters cover the sea.
And on that day, there’ll be a root from Jesse standin' tall as a sign for the folks; the Gentiles will be lookin' for it, and his rest will be somethin’ mighty fine.
It’s gonna happen that day, the Lord's gonna reach out again to bring back what’s left of his people who are scattered, comin' from Assyria, Egypt, Pathros, Cush, Elam, Shinar, Hamath, and all them islands out in the sea.
He’ll set up a sign for the nations, gather the lost sheep of Israel and pull together the folks of Judah from all four corners of the earth.
Ephraim won't be jealous of Judah no more, and all them foes of Judah will be done for; Ephraim ain't gonna envy Judah, and Judah won't be botherin’ Ephraim.
But they’re gonna take to the skies on the backs of the Philistines headin' west; they’ll plunder the east together; they’ll have their hands on Edom and Moab, and the kids of Ammon will fall in line behind 'em.
And the Lord’s gonna wipe out the tongue of the Egyptian sea; with his mighty wind, he'll wave his hand over the river and split it into seven streams, makin' folks cross over dry as a bone.
There’s gonna be a straight shot for what's left of his people from Assyria, just like it was for Israel when they came up outta Egypt.
