Well now, the Good Lord's gonna have mercy on Jacob, y’know he ain't forgettin' 'bout Israel, gonna set 'em right back in their own land; them strangers gonna hitch their wagons to the house of Jacob.
And folks'll take 'em, bring 'em on home; yep, from far and wide, all the way to the ends of the earth, they gonna return to their promised land. And the house of Israel gonna claim 'em, and the land of the Lord gonna be for servants and handmaids; and they gonna haul 'em off just like they was hauled off, and they gonna have themselves rule over them oppressors.
And it’s gonna come to pass that day that the Lord gonna give you some rest from all that sorrow, all that fear, and from the hard work you been bustin' your tail doin'.
And that day gonna roll around, and you gonna take up this ol' saying against the king of Babylon, sayin': How in the world did the oppressor stop, that golden city done stopped shut!
The Lord done broke the staff of them wicked folks, and the scepters of them rulers.
That one who smacked the folks in a rage with a constant beatdown, the one who ruled the nations in anger, he’s gettin' chased down, and ain't nobody gonna stop it.
The whole earth's at rest, real quiet-like; folks breakin' out in song.
Yeah, even the fir trees are havin' a hoedown over ya, and the cedars of Lebanon, sayin': Since you been laid down, no chopper's comin' up against us.
Hell’s movin' down below to meet ya when you show up; it’s stirrin' up the dead for ya, even the big shots from the earth; it’s raised up all them kings from their thrones.
All of 'em gonna speak and say to ya: Well, shoot, you done got weak like us? You turned into just like us?
Your fancy stuff's been brought down to the grave; ain’t no music from your fancy viols heard no more; the worms been spread out under you, and the worm's coverin' ya up.
Well, how’d you end up fallin' from heaven, oh Lucifer, son of the mornin'! You got cut down to the ground, the one who done weakened the nations!
Cause you done said in your heart: I'm gonna rise up to heaven, I’m gonna put my throne above the stars of God; I'm fixin' to sit on the mount of the congregation, on the sides of the north;
I’m gonna rise above the heights of them clouds; I'm gonna be like the Most High.
But you're gonna get dragged down to hell, to the sides of the pit.
Folks that see ya gonna look real close and say: Is this the fella that made the earth tremble, that shook up kingdoms?
And made the world like a wild place, destroyed all them cities, and didn’t even open the doors for his prisoners?
All them kings of the nations, yeah, all of 'em, lie there in glory, each one in their own fancy digs.
But you, you been kicked out of your grave like some rotten branch, and them few that got taken out with a sword, goin' down to the stones of the pit; like a carcass kicked underfoot.
You ain't gonna get buried with 'em, 'cause you done wrecked your own land and killed your people; the seed of them evildoers ain't never gonna be famous.
Get ready to do some slayin’ for his kids 'cause of their daddies' sins, so they don't rise up, nor take the land, nor fill the face of the world with cities.
For I'm gonna rise up against 'em, says the Lord of Hosts, and wipe out from Babylon the names, the leftovers, the sons, and the nephews, says the Lord.
I’m also gonna make it a place for the bittern and some pools of water; and I’ll sweep it away with the broom of destruction, says the Lord of Hosts.
The Lord of Hosts swore, sayin': Just like I thought it would happen, it’s gonna happen; and just like I planned, it’s gonna stand—
That I’m gonna bring that Assyrian into my land, and stomp him down on my mountains; then his yoke gonna come off 'em, and that burden gonna lift right off their shoulders.
This here is the plan that's set for the whole earth; and this is the hand stretched out against all nations.
For the Lord of Hosts has made up his mind, and who can undo that? And His hand’s stretched out, and who gonna turn it back?
In the year when King Ahaz died was this heavy load.
Don’t you go rejoicing, whole Palestina, ‘cause the rod of the one who smacked ya is broken; 'cause outta the serpent's root gonna come a cockatrice, and his fruit gonna be a fiery flyin' serpent.
And the firstborn of the poor will eat, and the needy gonna lay down safe; and I’m gonna whack your root with famine, and he gonna wipe out your leftovers.
Holler, oh gate; cry out, oh city; you, whole Palestina, you’re all done for; 'cause there’s a smoke comin' from the north, and none gonna be alone in what’s meant to happen.
So what they gonna say to the messengers from the nations? That the Lord done built Zion, and the poor among His people gonna trust in it.
