Now, I reckon I’m fixin’ to say a few things ‘bout the words I done wrote, the ones Isaiah himself spoke. See, Isaiah said a whole heap of things that kinda went over the heads of folks like mine, ‘cause they don’t rightly get how them Jews prophesy.
I ain’t taught ‘em much ‘bout how the Jews operate, ‘cause their ways were all dark and their doin’s were downright nasty.
So, I’m a-writin’ to my folks, and all y’all who come after ‘em, so they can know God’s judgments come down on every nation, like he’s been sayin’.
Now y’all listen up, house of Israel, give a listen to what I’m sayin’; the words of Isaiah might not make sense to ya, but they sure are clear to those filled with the spirit of prophecy. I’m givin’ y’all a prophecy that’s straight from the spirit in me, ‘cause I been prophesyin’ plain ‘n’ simple ever since I left Jerusalem with my daddy; my heart just loves plain talk so my folks can learn.
Yep, I take joy in Isaiah’s words, ‘cause I saw a lot while I was in Jerusalem, and I can tell you, them Jews do know what the prophets say. Ain’t no other folks catchin’ on to what the prophets said like they do, ‘less they learn it the way the Jews do.
But shoot, I ain’t raised my young’uns like them Jews do; I know Jerusalem real well, so I’ve talked to my kids ‘bout the judgments of God that’ve come down on the Jews, accord’n’ to all that Isaiah had to say, but I ain’t writin’ ’em down.
But hey, I’m carryin’ on with my own prophecy, keepin’ it plain; I know nobody’s gonna mess that up. But there’ll come a time when folks will really know when Isaiah’s prophecies come true.
So, them words are real useful for folks, and if someone thinks they ain’t, then I’ll speak directly to my own folks; I reckon they gonna be mighty useful for ‘em in the last days, when they finally understand ‘em; that’s why I wrote ‘em down for their good.
Just like one generation of Jews was wiped out ‘cause of their wrongdoings, so it goes on from one to the next, all ‘cause of their sins; ain’t nobody been destroyed ‘less the Lord’s prophets warned ‘em first.
They’ve been told about the destruction comin’ their way right after my daddy split Jerusalem; but they went and hardened their hearts; and just like I said, they got destroyed, ‘cept for them that got dragged off to Babylon.
Now I’m sayin’ this ‘cause somethin’ in me makes me speak. Even though they got dragged away, they gonna come back ‘round and reclaim Jerusalem; they gonna get back to their land.
But y’all best believe, they gonna have themselves some wars and hear all sorts of mess ‘bout wars; and when the day finally comes that the Only Begotten of the Father shows up in the flesh, well, they gonna turn ‘im away ‘cause they’re full of sin, hard hearts, and stubborn necks.
And just like that, they gonna crucify him; and after he’s laid to rest for three days, he gonna rise up again, bringin’ about healings; and all who believe in his name gonna be saved in the Kingdom of God. That’s why it makes my heart happy to prophesy ‘bout him, ‘cause I’ve seen his day and I’m all about praise for his holy name.
And ya know, after the Messiah gets up from the dead and shows himself to the people who will believe in his name, Jerusalem gonna face destruction again; woe to them who go up against God and his church.
So, the Jews gonna find themselves scattered ‘mong all nations; and Babylon gonna be brought down too; hence, the Jews gonna be spread apart by other nations.
And after they been scattered, the Lord’s gonna whip ‘em by other nations for many generations, all the way down to when they finally figure out to believe in Christ, the Son of God, and ‘bout the atonement that’s for everybody—and when that day rolls around, when they up and believe in Christ, worshippin’ the Father in his name, with clean hearts and honest hands, not lookin’ for another Messiah, then they gonna see the day they oughta believe in these things.
And the Lord, he’s gonna take his hand again to bring back his people from their lost ways. That’s why he’s gonna do a marvel, a wonder for the children of men.
He’s gonna bring forth his words that’ll judge ‘em come the last day, ‘cause they gotta be convinced ‘bout the real Messiah, the one they turned away; and they won’t need to be lookin’ for a Messiah anymore ‘cause ain’t nobody but a false one gonna be out there foolin’ folks; the only one talked about by the prophets, that one’s the Messiah who’ll be rejected by the Jews.
For the prophets said, the Messiah's comin’ in six hundred years after my pa left Jerusalem; according to what them prophets said, and the word from God’s angel, his name’s gonna be Jesus Christ, the Son of God.
And now, brothers of mine, I’ve been real plain with you so there ain’t no messin’ it up. And as sure as the Lord God liveth who got Israel outta Egypt and gave Moses the power to heal folks after they got bitten by them snakes, if they’d just look at the serpent he raised up for ‘em, and also gave him power to hit that rock and make the water flow; ye see, I’m tellin’ you, just like that’s true, ‘cause the Lord God liveth, there ain’t no other name under heaven except this Jesus Christ that I’ve told y’all about that’ll save a man.
That’s why the Lord God promised me that what I’m writin’ here’s gonna be kept safe, passed down to my kin, from generation to generation, so the promise made to Joseph can be kept; that his descendants won’t ever perish as long as this old earth stands.
So these words gonna get passed down from generation to generation as long as this earth keeps spinnin’; and they gonna go just how God wants; and the nations that hold ‘em gonna be judged by ‘em based on what’s written.
We work real hard to write and persuade our kids and our brothers to believe in Christ, get right with God, ‘cause we know it’s by grace we’re saved, after all we can manage.
And even if we believe in Christ, we still keep the law of Moses, lookin' ahead with hopefulness to Christ, ‘til the law’s got fulfilled.
‘Cause that’s why the law was handed down; so that law’s become dead to us, but we live ‘cause of our faith in Christ; though we still follow the law ‘cause of the commandments.
We talk ‘bout Christ, we get happy ‘bout him, we tell the good news of him, we prophesy about him, and we write down our prophecies so our kids know where to turn for forgiveness of their sins.
So we’re speakin’ about the law to our kids so they can understand how dead the law is; and by knowin’ the deadness of the law, they can look forward to that life that’s in Christ, and see for what purpose the law was given. Once the law’s got fulfilled through Christ, they won’t harden their hearts against him when the law oughta be set aside.
And now listen here, my people, you’re a stubborn bunch; I’ve spoken real clear so there ain’t no way you could misunderstand. The words I shared gonna stand against you, ‘cause they’re enough to teach anyone the right way; and the right way is to believe in Christ and not deny him; ‘cause by denyin’ him, you’re also sayin’ no to the prophets and the law.
And now, I’m tellin’ you the right way is to believe in Christ and not deny him; and Christ is the Holy One of Israel; hence, you gotta bow down to him, and worship him with all your might, mind, strength, and whole soul; and if you do this, you ain’t gonna be cast out no way.
And, as long as it makes sense, you gotta keep up with the duties and ordinances of God until the law given to Moses is fulfilled.
