Well now, after Jesus done risen up from the grave, He’s gonna show Himself to y’all, my young’uns and my dear brethren; and the words He’ll say to ya will be the law y’all gotta follow.
Y’all listen up, 'cause I done seen plenty generations pass on by, and there’s gonna be some fierce wars and arguments amongst my folks.
And after the Messiah swings by, there’ll be all sorts of signs givin’ away His birth, and His death and resurrection too; that day’s gonna be somethin’ awful for the wicked, 'cause they gonna get wiped out; and it’s their own fault for tossin’ out the prophets and the saints, stonin’ ‘em and takin’ ‘em out. So the blood of the saints is gonna raise a ruckus up to God from the ground ’gainst ‘em.
So, all y’all who strut around all proud and doin’ wicked things, the day’s gonna come when it’ll set fire to ya, says the Lord of Hosts; they gonna be like dry grass ready to burn.
And them that go ‘round killin’ the prophets and saints, the depths of the earth is gonna swallow ‘em up, says the Lord of Hosts; mountains gonna hide ‘em, whirlwinds gonna carry ‘em off, buildings gonna come crashin’ down on ‘em and just turn ‘em to dust and grind ‘em up real fine.
And they gonna be hit with thunder, lightning, and quakes, along with all sorts of destroyin’, 'cause the Lord’s anger’s gonna blaze up against ‘em, and they gonna be like dry grass, and that day’s gonna consume ‘em, says the Lord of Hosts.
Oh, the hurt and sorrow in my heart for losin’ my folks! 'Cause I, Nephi, seen it all, and it’s near about done me in in front of the Lord; but I gotta cry out to my God: Your ways are fair.
But check it out, the good folks who listen to the prophets and don’t do 'em wrong, but stay lookin’ towards Christ with steady hearts waitin’ for the signs, no matter the hard times—they’re the ones that won’t be lost.
But the Son of Righteousness gonna shine on them; He’s gonna heal ‘em, and they gonna have peace with Him, 'til three generations pass, and many from the fourth generation gonna leave this world right.
And once all this goes on, a quick destruction's comin’ for my folks; 'cause, even with all the trouble in my soul, I seen it comin’; so I know it’s gonna happen; and they sell themselves for nothin’—because of their pride and foolishness, they gonna harvest their own ruin. They choose dark works instead of light, so down to hell they go.
'Cause the Spirit of the Lord ain’t gonna fight with folks forever. And when the Spirit stops tryin’ to work with ‘em, the destruction comes real quick, and that just breaks my heart.
And when I was talkin’ 'bout tryin’ to convince the Jews that Jesus is the real deal, it’s gotta be that the Gentiles gonna get convinced too that Jesus is the Christ, the Eternal God;
And He shows Himself to everyone who believes in Him, through the power of the Holy Ghost; yessiree, to every nation, kindred, tongue, and people, workin’ mighty wonders, signs, and miracles 'mongst the folks dependin’ on their faith.
But hey now, I’m tellin’ y’all what’s coming in the last days; when the Lord God’s gonna bring these things forth to the children of men.
After my people and my kin have dwindled in doubt, and have been knocked around by the Gentiles; yeah, after the Lord God sets up camp against ‘em tight and lays siege with a big ol’ mountain, buildin’ forts against ‘em; and after they been brought down low in the dirt, even like they don’t exist, yet the words of the righteous will get penned down, and the prayers of the faithful gonna be heard, and all who’ve faded in disbelief won’t be forgotten.
'Cause those who get destroyed gonna speak to 'em from the ground, and their words gonna rise soft from the dust, like a familiar spirit; for the Lord God’s gonna give ‘em power to whisper about ‘em, even like it’s comin’ outta the ground; and their words gonna be a soft murmur from the dust.
So says the Lord God: They gonna write what’s gonna happen to 'em, and it’ll get penned and sealed in a book, and those who’ve fallen away in doubt ain’t gonna see it, 'cause they tryin’ to wreck the things of God.
So just like those who’ve been taken out got taken out real quick; and the lot of their terrible ones gonna be like chaff blown away—yeah, thus says the Lord God: It’s gonna be in a flash, just like that—
And it’s gonna happen that those who’ve faded away in doubt gonna get hit by the Gentiles.
And the Gentiles are all puffed up with pride, and they fell flat, 'cause they got a heap of stumbling blocks, buildin’ all them fancy churches; but they push aside the power and miracles of God, and preach their own wisdom and learnin’, all so they can profit off the backs of the poor.
And there’s a whole mess of churches goin’ up that stir up jealousy, and fights, and hatred.
And there’s also some secret groups, just like back in the day, all those devilish combinations, ‘cause he’s the mastermind behind all this mess; yep, founder of murder and dark deeds; and he pulls ‘em along by the neck with a pretty little cord, till he ties 'em up tight forever.
Listen up, my dear brethren, I’m tellin’ ya, the Lord God ain’t workin’ in darkness.
He don’t do nothin’ 'less it’s for the good of the world; for He loves the world, even enough to lay down His own life to draw all folks to Him. So take it to heart, He don’t command nobody to stay away from His salvation.
Is He out there shoutin’ at anyone, sayin’: Get away from me? Nope, I tell ya, He don’t; but He’s sayin’: Come to me, all ya folks from far and wide, come on down for milk and honey, without payin’ a dime.
Now, has He told noone to leave the synagogues or the places of worship? Listen here, I say to ya, Nah.
Has He said folks shouldn’t take part in His salvation? Well, I’m tellin’ ya, Nah; He’s made it free for everyone; and He’s told His people to persuade all folks to turn back to Him.
Now, has the Lord gone ‘round sayin’ folks shouldn’t enjoy His goodness? Nah, I’m tellin’ ya, they all get the same privilege, and nobody’s left out.
He’s commanded there be no priestcrafts; ‘cause priestcrafts is when folks preach and make themselves out to be the light of the world, just to rake in some bucks and the world’s applause; but they ain’t lookin’ out for Zion’s well-being.
Y’all, the Lord’s put a stop to that; so the Lord God’s given a command that all folks oughta love, and that love is charity. And if they don’t have charity, they ain't nothin'. So if they do have charity, they won’t let the laborers in Zion go hungry.
But the laborer in Zion gonna work for Zion; ‘cause if they labor just for money, they gonna be lost.
And again, the Lord God’s commanded folks not to kill; not to lie; not to steal; not to misuse the name of the Lord; not to envy; not to hold grudges; not to fight with one another; not to commit whoredoms; and to steer clear of all this stuff; 'cause whoever does these things gonna meet their end.
None of these wickedness comes from the Lord; for He does good amongst the children of men, and He don’t do nothin’ unless it’s plain to see for the children of men; and He invites everyone to come to Him and enjoy His goodness; and He ain’t denyin' none that come to Him, black or white, slave or free, male or female; and He remembers the heathen; and all are equal in the eyes of God, both Jew and Gentile.
