Well now, listen close, 'cause here's how it goes in them last days, y’see. That darkness and a whole mess of folks strayin' from the good ol' ways is gonna blanket the earth real thick—oh, but don’t y’all worry, The Book of Mormon’s gonna pop up like a surprise at a family reunion. Three folks are gonna swear up and down ‘bout that book, and those brainy types will scratch their heads and say they can’t make heads or tails of that sealed book. But lemme tell ya, the Lord’s fixin’ to pull off some mighty fine works and wonders—just like in Isaiah 29, ya know. We're talkin’ 'round 559 to 545 B.C. here.
Now reckon in them last days, or when the Gentiles be comin' around—you best believe every nation, Gentiles and Jews alike, whether they be settlin' down here or far off yonder, well, they’re gonna be so wrapped up in their own mess and all sorts of sin it ain't even funny.
When that day rolls ‘round, they gonna get a visit from the Lord of Hosts, and it ain't gonna be pretty, no sir. Expect thunder rollin', ground shakin', noises blastin’, with storms fiercer than a gator huntin’ in the rain, and flames lickin’ at everything.
All them nations hell-bent on fightin’ against Zion, makin' her squirm, they gonna be like a bad dream, just like a hungry feller dreamin’ he’s munchin’ away, but when he wakes up, he ain't got nothin' in his belly; or a thirsty soul thinkin' he’s sippin’ sweet tea, but when he comes to, he’s still parched, just like the folks goin' against that holy hill.
Y’all that keep doin’ wrong, take a step back and scratch your heads some, ‘cause you gonna be hollerin’ real loud, but not for the good stuff; you’ll be feelin’ dizzy, but it won't be from the shine, no sirree, but ‘cause you ain’t livin’ right.
For the Lord’s gone and poured some deep slumber juice right on ya. You've gone and shut them eyes tight, pushin’ away the prophets, and your leaders and seers he’s covered up ‘cause y’all keep stirrin’ up trouble.
Then the Lord God’s gonna bring ya some words from a book, and they gonna be from folks restin’ easy in the ground.
Now that book’s gonna be all sealed up, with revelations from God runnin’ all the way from when the world kicked off to the very end.
So, ‘cause of all them sealed-up secrets, they ain't gonna see the light of day while folks is caught up in their wicked ways and shenanigans. That book’s gonna stay hidden from ‘em.
But that book’s gonna get handed off to a fella, and he’ll pass along them words, words from them layin’ in the dust, and he’ll share ‘em with others.
But the sealed words? Nah, he won’t hand those out, nor will he let go of the book. That book’s sealed tight by the power of God, and those revelations? They gonna stay put ‘til the right time shows up ‘cause they'll lay bare everything from the get-go to the end of time.
There’s gonna come a day when them sealed words gonna be blasted out on rooftops, and they gonna get read out loud with Christ’s power, where all truths come out to the good folks, past, present, and even up to the end of the earth.
So, come that day when that book’s finally passed to the man I been crowin' about, it’ll be hid from the world’s eyes—ain’t nobody gonna see it but three witnesses, and that’ll be thanks to the Big Guy upstairs, besides the fellow it’s given to. They’re gonna swear up and down that book's truth and what’s in it.
And ain't no one else gonna lay eyes on it, except a few folks ‘cause that’s how the Lord’s rollin’, wantin’ to share His word with the folks. The Lord’s made it clear that the faithful's words gonna sound like they’s comin’ from beyond the grave.
So, the Lord’s gonna get to work bringin’ out the book’s words, and however many witnesses He sees fit, He’ll make sure His word is standin’ strong; and woe, oh woe, to them that look down their noses at God’s word!
But listen up good now, cause the Lord’s gonna say to whoever gets that book: Here, take these words that ain't sealed and show ‘em around, tellin’ ‘em smart folks, “Read this here, ya hear?” And those book-smart types will say: “Bring me that book, and I reckon I’ll read it.”
And at that point, it's all ‘bout the world’s glory and makin' a buck; they sure ain't gonna do it for God’s glory.
And that fella’s gonna shout, “I can’t bring back that book, it’s sealed up tighter than a drum.”
Then the educated ones will say: “I can’t read it!”
So, it’s gonna come to pass that the Lord’s gonna hand off that book and its words again to someone who ain’t so learned; and that simple soul’s gonna say: “Well shoot, I ain’t got no book learnin’.”
Then the Lord’s gonna tell him: “Them book-smart folks ain’t gonna read it ‘cause they turned their backs on it, but I can handle my own business; so you go ahead and read the words I’m givin’ you.”
Don’t go messin’ with them sealed things, ‘cause I’m bringin’ ‘em out in my own time; I’ll show the good folks I can do what I say.
So, once you’ve read what I told ya and got the witnesses I promised, you’re gonna seal that book up tight again, put it away for me so I can keep those words safe ‘til the time’s right in my own wise way to show all the folks everything.
‘Cause lemme tell ya, I am God; and I do miracles; and I’ll make it known to the world I’m the same now, yesterday, and always; and I don't work in the business of men unless it’s ‘cause of their faith.
And again, the Lord’s gonna tell the one readin' the words given to him:
Now look here, these folks are closin’ in on me with their mouths, but their hearts? They’s miles away, and they’re learnin’ fear from what other folks say—
So, I’m gonna roll out a marvel of a project with these folks, an incredible work, for their wise guys are gonna go dim-witted, and those who think they’re smart gonna be kept in the dark.
And woe be to them that’s tryin’ to sneak around and hide their plans from the Lord! Their deeds in shadows, thinkin’, “Who’s seein’ us? Who knows our dirt?” They even got the nerve to say: “Turnin’ things upside down’s gonna be like potter’s clay.” But let me tell ya, I’ll let them know, says the Lord of Hosts, that I see all they doin’. Can’t the clay go sayin’ to the potter, “You didn’t make me?” Or can something built go tellin’ the builder, “You messed up?”
But hold on now, says the Lord of Hosts: I’m gonna show folks it won’t be long ‘til Lebanon’s gonna be a fruitful field, and that fruitful field’ll look like a big ol’ forest.
On that day, the deaf gonna hear the book’s words, and blind folks gonna see right through the murk and the dark.
And the meek gonna flourish, their joy found in the Lord, and the poor among men gonna delight in the Holy One of Israel.
‘Cause you bet your boots, as surely as the Lord lives, they gonna see that the tough ones been sent packin’, and them scoffers gonna be washed away, and they who lurk for sin gonna be cut off;
And those who trip a man up for a single word, and lay a trap for them that speaks right in the gate, and turn aside the fair for nothin’.
So, here’s the scoop from the Lord, who saved Abraham, about the house of Jacob: Jacob ain’t gonna be ashamed now, and his face ain’t gonna get all pale.
But when he sees his young’uns, the work of my hands, right in front of him, they gonna honor my name, and set apart the Holy One of Jacob, and they gonna stand in awe of the God of Israel.
And them that went astray in spirit, they gonna come ‘round to understanding, and them that been grumblin’ gonna learn a thing or two.
