Well now, listen up, y’all. I gotta tell ya, in them last days, there's gonna be a whole mess of false churches poppin’ up—gonna preach nothin’ but lies, foolish ideas, and empty talkin’—and with all those false teachers runnin' ‘round, apostasy's gonna be thicker than molasses. The devil’s gonna be havin’ himself a field day stirrin’ up trouble in folks' hearts—teaching all sorts of wild ideas.
Now, let me catch yer ear a minute, folks. I’m here to share what the Spirit's pushed on me, so I reckon it's bound to come true.
And what’s written down in that book is gonna mean a heap to folks, especially to our kin, who are part of the chosen folks, y’know, the house of Israel.
Cause there's gonna come a day when these churches poppin' up ain’t got the Lord in 'em at all, and folks will be braggin’ like, "Hey there, I'm the Lord's," while others chime in just the same, and every preacher with their church will be claimin’ the same thing, but not really givin' the Lord His due—
And there’ll be a whole lotta fussin’ back and forth; their priests will be bickerin’ too, all while teachin’ their fancy learnin’ and turnin’ away the Holy Ghost that actually speaks the truth.
And they’ll be keepin’ people in the dark ‘bout God’s power, the Holy One of Israel, tellin’ everyone to listen up to their own rules, sayin’, “Ain’t no God ‘round here today; the Lord’s finished His work, and He’s given the reins to folks like us.”
Now, y’all listen here; if they start claimin’ some miracle done by the Lord, don’t you believe it, cause today, it seems He ain’t doin’ miracles no more; He’s already done what He needed to do.
Shoot, there’ll be plenty out there sayin’, “Go on now, eat, drink, and have a good time, cause we ain’t got long to live; everything’s gonna be just fine.”
And you'll have another crowd sayin’, "Go ahead and live it up," but remember to give some thought to God, ‘cause he’s okay with a little sin, right? Just a little lie here and there, maybe take advantage of someone ‘cause of the way they speak, or dig a little hole for your neighbor; they’ll say it’s all good—go on and have your fun, after all, we only live once; and if we slip up, God will just give us a little slap on the wrist, and in the end, we’ll still find our way into His happy place.
Yeah, and there'll be plenty folks teachin’ all this nonsense, puffed up in pride, tryin’ to hide their plans from the Lord; they’ll be a-workin’ in the shadows.
And the blood of the good people is gonna yell from the ground against ‘em.
Yessiree, they’ve strayed from the path; they’re all corrupted now.
All this pride, false teachers, and crazy ideas have messed up their churches; they’re way too big for their britches.
They’re robbin’ the poor with their fancy buildings; takin’ from the needy while flauntin’ their fine clothes, puttin’ the squeeze on the humble and those with kind hearts, just ‘cause they can’t see past their own pride.
They walk ‘round like they’re the king of the hill, all stiff-necked; and on account of that pride, all the wickedness and wrong turns, they’ve lost their way—except for a few humble followers of Christ; but even they get led off track sometimes, ‘cause they’re taught by men who ain’t on the level.
Oh, those so-called wise folks, with their big brains and fat pockets, all puffed up with pride, mixin’ up false preachin’ and silly ways, and all those who mess with what’s right before the Lord—woe unto ‘em, says the Almighty God, ‘cause they’ll be takin’ a long tumble straight to hell!
Woe to them who push aside the righteous for nothin’ and insult what’s truly good, sayin’ it ain’t worth a dime! ‘Cause one fine day, the Lord's gonna come down quick-like, and those who are knee-deep in their wrongdoings are gonna face their end.
But hold up now, if the people on this earth turn ‘round from their bad ways, set aside all that mess, they won’t be wiped out, says the Lord of Hosts.
Now listen, that big ol' abominable church—the whore of all earth—it's gotta come tumblin’ down, and it’s gonna be a sight to see.
‘Cause the devil's kingdom’s gotta shake, and those who play for him better get ready to change their tune, or he’s gonna hold ‘em tight with his heavy chains, stirrin’ ‘em up to be mad and leadin’ ‘em to their doom;
For look here, on that day, he sure will be furious in the hearts of men, gettin' ‘em riled up against what’s good.
And then others, he’ll sweet-talk, lullin’ ‘em into a false sense of security, makin’ ‘em say, “Everything’s peachy in Zion; yeah, things are good, all's right” until he leads their very souls gently down to that fiery place.
And just you wait; he’ll flatter folks into thinkin’ there's no hell, whisperin’ sweet nothings, “I ain't no devil, ‘cause there just ain’t none”—and he’ll be whisperin’ in ‘em until he wraps ‘em up tight in his awful chains, from which there ain't no escape.
Yep, they’ll be caught up in death and hell; all that have gotten dragged down with ‘em will stand before God’s throne, gettin’ judged by what they done, and then it’s off to the spot prepared for ‘em, a lake of fire and brimstone, where the torment never ends.
So woe be to the ones sittin’ easy in Zion!
Woe be to those who shout, “All’s well!”
Yessir, woe be to folks who follow the rules of men and turn away from God’s power and the gift of the Holy Ghost!
Yessiree, woe be to anyone sayin’, “We’ve got all we need, no more from God!”
And in short, woe to all y’all who are shakin' and gettin’ mad ‘bout the truth of God! ‘Cause look here, them built on solid rock are gonna soak it all in with joy; and those who build on a shaky base will be tremblin’ like a leaf, scared they might just fall.
Woe to those claimin’, “We’ve gotten the word of God, and we sure don’t need any more,” ‘cause that just ain’t right!
For here’s what the Lord God says: I’m gonna give folks line by line, bit by bit; and bless the ones who listen up to what I say and pay attention to my counsel, ‘cause they’re gonna gain wisdom; and to him that’s willin’ to learn, I’ll give ‘em more; but those sayin’, “We’ve got plenty,” from them, even what they got will be taken away.
Cursed is the one who trusts in man or makes flesh his strength, or listens to man’s ways unless they come by the Spirit of God.
Woe to the Gentiles, says the Lord God of Hosts! Even though I reach out my hand to ‘em every single day, they’re still gonna turn me down; still, I’ll be merciful if they turn from their bad ways and come home to me, ‘cause my hand’s out there waitin’ all day long, says the Lord God of Hosts.
