Many folks 'round here gonna turn their backs on the Book of Mormon—They'll say, "We don't need no more Bible"—Well, the Lord's got somethin’ to say to all kinds of nations—He'll be judgin' the world from them books what'll be writin' down.
But y’all listen up, there’s gonna be a whole mess of folks—when I’m fixin’ to do somethin’ amazing among ‘em, so I can keep them promises I made to all ya’ll, settin' my hands back to reel in my people from the house of Israel;
And I also wanna keep them promises I made to you, Nephi, and to your daddy too, ‘bout rememberin’ your kin; and them words of your folks gonna be comin' straight from my mouth to your folks; and my words gonna echo to the ends of the earth, for a standard for my people, them from the house of Israel;
And since my words gonna echo out—plenty of the Gentiles gonna be shoutin': "A Bible! A Bible! We got us a Bible, and ain’t no more gonna be comin’."
But the Lord God's sayin’: "Y’all fools, they gonna have a Bible; and it’s gonna come from the Jews, my old covenant folks. And what in tarnation do the Jews get for the Bible they hand over? What’s the Gentiles’ deal? Do they remember all the struggles and hard work of them Jews, and how they’ve hustled to bring salvation to the Gentiles?"
O y’all Gentiles, have ya thought about the Jews, my old covenant folks? Nah; y’all just cursed 'em, hated 'em, and didn’t even try to help ‘em. But listen up, I’m gonna bring all that back around to ya; ‘cause I, the Lord, ain’t forgot my folks.
You’re a fool if you say: "A Bible, we got us a Bible, don’t need no more Bible." You reckon you got a Bible none other than the Jews’ doing?
Don’t ya know there’s more’n one nation out there? Don’t ya know that I, the Lord your God, made all men, and I remember those folks on the islands in the sea; and I’m in charge way up in the heavens and down here on earth; and I bring my word to all the children of men, yeah, even all them nations out there?
So why y’all gripin’ 'bout gettin’ more of my word? Don’t ya know that the testimony from two nations is proof that I’m God, that I remember one nation just like I do another? So I’m gonna speak the same words to one nation just like I do the other. And when them two nations come together, their testimony gonna come together too.
And I do this so I can show many that I’m the same yesterday, today, and forever; and that I talk the words I want to. And just ‘cause I’ve said one word don’t mean I can’t say another; ‘cause I ain’t done yet; and it won’t stop ‘til the end of man, not now or thereon after.
So just ‘cause y’all got a Bible don’t mean you can think it holds all my words; or think that I ain’t got more to write down.
‘Cause I command all folks, from the east to the west, the north and the south, and even on them islands of the sea, to write down the words I speak to 'em; ‘cause from them books what gets written, I’ll judge the world, every man by his works, by what’s been written down.
For I’m gonna speak to the Jews, and they gonna write it down; and I’m gonna talk to the Nephites, and they gonna write it; and I’ll also speak to other tribes of the house of Israel, the ones I led away, and they gonna write it too; and I’ll speak to all them nations of the earth and they gonna write it.
And it’s gonna happen that the Jews gonna have the words of the Nephites, and the Nephites gonna have the words of the Jews; and both the Nephites and the Jews gonna hold onto the words of the lost tribes of Israel; and the lost tribes gonna have the words of the Nephites and the Jews.
And it’s gonna come to pass that my folks, them from the house of Israel, gonna be brought back to their own lands; and my word gonna get gathered up too. And I’m gonna show those who fight against my word and my people, from the house of Israel, that I am God, and that I promised Abraham I’d remember his kin forever.
