Well now, Joseph in Egypt, he seen them Nephites in a vision—He was talkin’ 'bout Joseph Smith, the seer from these last days; and Moses, who was gonna lead them Israelites outta trouble; and how that Book of Mormon was gonna come 'round. We’re lookin’ at 'bout 588–570 B.C. here.
Now I’m fixin’ to have a word with you, Joseph, my baby boy. You come into this world while I was out wanderin’ ‘round in my hard times; shoot, your mama had you during my saddest days.
And I pray the Lord blesses this here land for you too, ‘cause it’s a right precious spot, destined to be yours and your kin’s, alongside your brothers, for your safe-keepin’ forever—as long as y’all keep the Holy One of Israel’s commandments.
And now, Joseph, my little one, I brought you outta the rough patches of my life, and may the Lord bless you for good, ‘cause your family ain't gonna be wiped out.
You see, you’re the fruit of my loins; and I’m a kin to Joseph who got snagged and taken down to Egypt. Man, the promises from the Lord were mighty fine that He made to Joseph.
So yeah, Joseph really saw what’s goin’ on in our time. He got a word from the Lord that from his kids, the Lord God was gonna raise up a right branch for the house of Israel; not the Messiah, mind you, but a branch that would be broken off but remembered in the Lord’s covenants, so the Messiah could show Himself to ‘em in the latter days, lookin' all powerful, bringin' ‘em from darkness to light—yep, outta hidden shadows and into freedom.
For Joseph rightly said, the Lord’s gonna raise up a seer—a real choice one—from my kin.
Yeah, Joseph went on to say: This is what the Lord’s tellin’ me: I’ll raise up a mighty seer from your seed, and he’s gonna be highly regarded among your kin. I’m gonna have him do a big ol’ job for all your folks, helpin’ ‘em know about the covenants I made with your daddies.
He’ll be under command to do just that job I give him, and I’ll make him shine in my eyes, ‘cause he’ll do my work.
And he’s gonna be great like Moses, the one I promised to raise up to save my people, O house of Israel.
Moses, I swear, I’m gonna raise him up, to get your people outta Egypt.
But a seer? Oh yeah, I’m raising one up from your kin; and I’ll empower him to bring forth my word to your descendants—and it ain't just about spittin' out my word, the Lord says, but he’ll convince ‘em of my word that's already been out here.
So here’s the deal: your kids are gonna write; and the folks from Judah will write too; and what gets written by your descendants and by Judah’s folks is gonna come together, messin’ up false teachings, settlin’ down arguments, bringin’ peace among your kin, and helpin’ ‘em realize who their daddies were in the last days, and also know my covenants, says the Lord.
And when the day comes that my work kicks off among my folks, they’ll be made strong outta weakness, just like I’m tellin’ ya, O house of Israel, says the Lord.
So Joseph prophesied, sayin’: Look, that seer the Lord’s gonna bless; and those who try to take him down? They’ll be put to shame, ‘cause this promise I got from the Lord ‘bout my seed is gonna happen. I know it’s gonna come true.
And his name’s gonna be after mine; just like his daddy’s name. He’s gonna be like me; ‘cause whatever the Lord brings forth by his hand, through the Lord's power, will lead my people to salvation.
Yeah, that’s how Joseph put it: I know this for sure, just like I know the promise of Moses; ‘cause the Lord told me He’d take care of your seed for good.
And the Lord said: I’m raisin’ up a Moses too; and I’ll give him power with a rod; and he’ll get the judgment in writein’. Yet I won't loosen his tongue so he can chit-chat too much, ‘cause I ain’t makin’ him a smooth talker. But I’ll be givin’ him my law, with my own finger, and I’ll set him up with a spokesperson.
And the Lord also told me: I'm raisin' up from your kin; and I’ll make a spokesperson for him too. And I’ll see to it that he writes down the words for your kids, and the spokesperson from your kin is gonna declare it all.
And the words he writes will be just what’s wise for goin’ out to your folks. It’ll be like your kin are shoutin’ to 'em from the dust, ‘cause I know how strong their faith is.
And they’re gonna cry out from the dust; yeah, even talkin’ repentance to their brothers, even after a heap of generations pass by. And it’ll come to pass that their cry will be heard, simple as it may be.
‘Cause of their faith, their words will come right outta my mouth to their brothers who are your descendants; and I’ll make their words strong through their faith, helpin’ 'em remember my covenant with their daddies.
And now, look here, my son Joseph, this is how my father from way back prophesied.
So y’know, ‘cause of this covenant, you’re blessed; ‘cause your seed ain’t gonna be destroyed, they’ll listen to the words of the book.
And one mighty soul’s gonna rise up from ‘em, doin’ a heap of good, both in talk and action, bein’ a tool in God’s hands with incredible faith, workin’ mighty wonders, doin’ what’s grand in God’s eyes, and bringing a whole lot of restoration to the house of Israel and your brothers’ seed.
And look at you, Joseph, you’re blessed, even if you’re a bit on the small side; so ya listen close to your brother Nephi’s words, and it’ll happen just like I said. Don’t you forget what your daddy said on his deathbed. Amen.
