Well now, listen up y’all, I got somethin’ to say; I reckon I’m Nephi, and I don’t want y’all thinkin’ you’re any better than them Gentiles. Now, I tell ya, if y’all ain't keepin' them commandments from God, well, y’all gonna meet the same fate as the rest, and don’t go thinkin’ them Gentiles ain’t got a chance either.
Now, lemme tell ya, all them Gentiles who wanna turn their lives ‘round are the Lord’s own folks; but them Jews who ain’t will get cast aside, reckonin’ the Lord don’t make no promises ‘cept to them who repent and believe in His Son, the Holy One of Israel.
Now I got more to prophesy ‘bout them Jews and Gentiles. Once that book I been yappin’ about gets out there, written for the Gentiles and sealed up to the Lord, well, lots of folks gonna believe them words, and they’ll take it to the last bit of our kin.
Then them folks who come after us will figure out just where we come from and know that we left Jerusalem, and they be kin to the Jews.
And the gospel of Jesus Christ, well, it gonna get spread ‘mongst ‘em; they gonna get back to knowin' their own folks and also know about Jesus Christ, just like their folks did.
And boy, they gonna be tickled pink; they gonna see it’s a real blessing from the good Lord, and the darkness gonna start fallin’ off their eyes; and a whole bunch of generations gonna pass and they gonna be pure and delightful folks.
And it gonna happen that them scattered Jews gonna start believe in Christ too, and they gonna gather ‘round on this here land; and anyone who puts their faith in Christ gonna be a delightful bunch as well.
Come to pass, the Lord God gonna kickstart His work with all them nations, tribes, tongues, and people, bringin’ His folks back on this earth.
And with righteousness, the Lord God gonna judge the poor folks, givin’ ‘em fair treatment. He gonna smack the earth with the mighty words from His mouth, and with the breath of His lips, He’s takin’ out the wicked.
You best believe the time’s comin’ real quick when the Lord God gonna make a big ol’ split ‘mongst the people, and the wicked? Well, they ain't makin’ it through; He gonna save His folks, even if it means they gotta be burnt up by fire.
Righteousness will be wrapped ‘round His waist, and faithfulness holdin’ Him tight.
And then y’all gonna see wolves layin’ up with lambs, and leopards chillin’ with little goats, calves, young lions, and fatlings all together. Just wait till a little bitty child shows ‘em how to behave.
You’ll have cows and bears grazin' side by side; their babies will be layin’ down together; and that lion? He’ll munch on grass just like an ox.
And the little ones gonna play right by the snake holes, and the weaned ones gonna put their hands right on the cockatrice’s den.
Ain't nobody gonna hurt or destroy nothin’ on all my holy mountain; the earth gonna be filled with the Lord’s knowledge like the waters ’round the sea.
So, all the stuff from all them nations gonna be laid out, y’hear? Yup, everything gonna come to light for the children of men.
Ain’t nothin’ secret but what gonna get revealed; no darkness gonna stay hidden in the light; and nothin’ sealed up on this earth that won’t get opened up.
So, every single thing that’s been shared with the folks will come to light on that day; and Satan ain’t gonna have no power over the hearts of men for a long spell. Now I’m done sayin’ my piece, my beloved brethren.
