Well now, I reckon it's time for this ol’ gal Nephi to wrap up my preachin’ to y’all, my dear brothers. I ain’t got much space here, just a few things I know’re gonna happen for sure; and I can only jot down a handful of words from my brother Jacob too.
So, the stuff I’ve written's enough for me, 'cept for a few things I gotta say ‘bout the good ol’ teachings of Christ; so I’ll talk to ya plain-like, true to the simple prophesyin' I’ve done.
See, I just love keepin’ it simple; that’s how the Good Lord rolls with His children. The Lord fills folks’ minds with clarity; He speaks to ‘em in ways they can get it, in their own lingo.
Now, I want y’all to remember what I told ya ‘bout that prophet the Lord showed me, who was gonna dunk the Lamb of God, the one who’d wash away the world’s sins.
And I reckon if the Lamb of God, bein' all holy and whatnot, needed to get dunked in water to make things right, well, how much more do we, bein' all unholy, need to get baptized, sure as shootin’!
So now I’ll ask y’all, my dear brothers, what’s the deal with the Lamb of God fulfillin' all righteousness by gettin’ baptized in water?
Y’all ain’t forgotten he’s holy, right? But even though he’s holy, he humbles himself before the Father and shows folks he’s ready to obey Him by followin’ the commandments.
After that good dunkin’ in water, the Holy Ghost came down on him like a dove, bless his heart.
And it shows folks just how tight that path is, and how narrow that gate is that folks gotta pass through, since he went first settin' the example for all of us.
And he told the children of men: Follow me on this here journey. So, my dear brothers, can we really follow Jesus if we ain't willin’ to keep the Father’s commands?
And the Father said: Y’all best repent, ya hear? Get yerself baptized in the name of my Beloved Son.
And then, the voice of the Son reached out to me, sayin': Whoever gets dunked in my name, the Father’s gonna give 'em the Holy Ghost, just like me; so, follow me and do what you’ve seen me do.
So I’m tellin’ ya, my dearest brothers, I know that if y’all follow the Son with all your heart, actin’ honest and true before God, and truly repentin’ of your sins, and tellin' the Father you’re willin’ to take on Christ’s name through baptism—yeah, by followin’ your Lord and Savior down into that water, just like he said—then you’re gonna get the Holy Ghost; that’s when the fire and the Spirit will come to ya; and then you’ll be talkin’ like angels and shoutin’ praises to the Holy One of Israel.
But, listen here, my beloved brothers, here’s what the voice of the Son said to me: After y’all’ve repented of your sins and told the Father you’re gonna keep my commandments through water baptism, and you’ve received that fiery baptism with the Holy Ghost, and you’re speakin’ with a new language, even like them angels, if after all that you turn your back on me, it’d be better for ya if you never even known me.
And I caught a word from the Father, sayin’: Yup, the words of my Beloved are true and real. Whoever hangs in there till the end, that’s the one who’ll be saved.
Now, my beloved brothers, I know that if a man don’t stick it out to the end by followin’ the example of the living God’s Son, he’s gonna miss out on salvation.
So, go do what I’ve told ya I seen our Lord and Redeemer do; ‘cause that’s why they’ve been laid out before me, so y’all would know the gate ya need to stroll through. The way ya get in is through repentin’ and water baptism; and then ya get yerself a clean slate through fire and the Holy Ghost.
And then, you’re in this here tight and narrow path that leads to eternal life; you’ve strolled through the gate; you’ve followed the Father and Son’s commandments; and you’ve got the Holy Ghost, which tells you ‘bout the Father and Son, fulfillin’ the promise that if you stepped in by this way, you’ll get your reward.
Now, my dear brothers, after you’ve made it onto this narrow path, I gotta ask, is that it? Well, I’m tellin’ ya, nah; you ain’t got this far ‘less it was through the word of Christ and rock-solid faith in him, dependin’ fully on the one who can save you.
So, y’all gotta keep pushin’ on with a strong heart in Christ, holdin’ onto that bright hope and lovin’ God and all folks. So if you keep pressing on, feastin’ on the good word of Christ, and toughin’ it out to the end, then here’s what the Father says: You’re gonna get eternal life.
And now, look here, my dear brothers, this is the way; and there ain’t no other way or name under heaven that folks can be saved in the kingdom of God. And now, take this in mind, this here's the doctrine of Christ, the one and only true doctrine of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost, who is one God, forever and ever. Amen.
