Well now, listen here, folks, them angels got a way of talkin’ 'cause of the Holy Ghost, and if y'all wanna get wise, you gotta pray and figure things out for yerself straight from that Holy Ghost. We're talkin' 'bout 559 to 545 B.C. here.
Now, ya see, my dear friends, I reckon y’all might be thinkin’ on what to do after takin’ that first step. But I gotta ask, why y’all sittin’ there wonderin’?
Don’t ya recall I told ya that once y’all got the Holy Ghost, ya could gab like angels? Now, tell me, how in tarnation could ya talk like angels ‘less it’s by the Holy Ghost?
Them angels chatter on account of the Holy Ghost; that means they’re just spoutin’ off the words of Christ. So I’m tellin’ ya, chow down on the words of Christ, ‘cause they’ll tell ya everything ya need to know.
So now, after I’ve chewed the fat a bit, if ya ain’t catchin’ what I'm throwin’ out there, it’s ‘cause ya ain't askin’, and ya ain't knockin’; so y’all aren’t seein’ the light, and ya gonna be stuck in the dark.
‘Cause I’m tellin’ ya again, if ya wanna step right and get that Holy Ghost, it’ll guide ya on all the things ya oughta do.
Now, this here is the word of Christ, and there ain’t gonna be no more preachin’ 'til He shows up in the flesh. And when He does come a-visitin’, ya best pay attention to what He says and put it into action.
And now, I’m Nephi, and I can't say much more; the Spirit’s got me tongue-tied, and it troubles me seein’ folks takin’ things lightly, bein’ all wicked, ignorant, and hard-headed-like; 'cause they ain't searchin’ for knowledge nor gettin' the good stuff when it’s laid out plain as day.
So here I am, my dear folks, and I can see you still wonderin’ in your hearts; it pains me to bring this up. If y’all would just listen to that Spirit teachin’ folks how to pray, ya would know it’s somethin' you gotta do; ‘cause that mean ol' spirit ain't gonna teach ya to pray, instead, it’ll steer ya away from it.
But listen here, I’m tellin’ ya, y’all need to pray all the time, don’t be givin’ up; and don’t you do nothin’ for the Lord ‘til you’ve prayed to the Father first in Jesus’ name, askin’ Him to bless what you do, so it’ll be good for your soul.
