Well, now, I’m Nephi, and I gotta tell ya ‘bout the prophecies my pa was jawin’ ‘bout, especially concerning old Joseph who got taken down to Egypt.
Looky here, he sure did make some prophecies ‘bout all his folk. And the things he wrote, well, ain't too many better than those. He was talkin’ ‘bout us and our kiddos, and it’s all jotted down on them brass plates.
So, after my daddy wrapped up his talkin’ ‘bout Joseph’s prophecies, he gathered up Laman’s young’uns—his boys and girls—and he said to ‘em: Hey y’all, listen up now to what I got to say.
‘Cause the Lord God done said, as long as y’all stick to my commandments, you’ll do just fine here; but if you don’t, then you’re gonna be outta His presence for sure.
Now, look, my sons and my daughters, I can’t just slide into my grave without leavin’ ya a blessin’; ‘cause I know if y’all grow up right, you ain't ever gonna stray from that path.
So, if y’all are cursed, I’m leavin’ my blessin’ on ya, so that curse gets lifted off ya and lands right on your folks instead.
Therefore, ‘cause of my blessin’, the Lord God ain’t gonna let y’all perish; He’ll show some mercy on ya and your kin for all time.
Then it happened that after my father finished speakin’ to Laman’s young’uns, he had the Lemuel kids brought on up to him.
And he said to ‘em: Hey there, my sons and daughters from my second boy; I’m givin’ ya the same blessin’ I gave to Laman’s kids; so, y’all won’t be wiped out completely; in the end, your descendants will be blessed.
Sure enough, after my daddy finished talkin’ to ‘em, he turned to Ishmael’s boys, and even called in the whole crew.
Once he was done with them, he turned to Sam and said: Bless your heart, you and your kiddos; you’re gonna get the land just like your brother Nephi. Your children will be counted with his, and ain’t gonna be no different; you’ll all be blessed throughout your days.
And after my pop, Lehi, had shared his heart with the whole family, he got on up there in years. And sure enough, he passed away and got buried.
Not too long after he was gone, Laman and Lemuel and Ishmael’s boys started gettin’ all riled up with me ‘cause the Lord was layin’ down some admonishments.
You see, I, Nephi, felt it was my duty to speak to ‘em just like the Lord told me to; ‘cause I had already said plenty to ‘em, and my daddy did too before he kicked the bucket; a bunch of what we said is written down on my other plates, ‘cause the other history is captured there too.
And on these here plates, I’m scribblin’ ‘bout the things weighin’ on my heart, along with many scriptures carved on them brass plates. My heart is just tickled with them scriptures, and I ponder on ‘em and write ‘em down for my kids to learn from and benefit.
Look, my soul is happy with the things of the Lord; and I keep thinkin’ ‘bout all that I’ve seen and heard.
But still, for all the goodness from the Lord, showin’ me His big ol’ marvelous works, my heart’s just shoutin’: Oh man, how wretched I am! Yeah, my heart’s heavy ‘cause of my flesh; my soul’s feelin’ real low ‘cause of my wrongs.
I’m surrounded by temptations and sins that just seem to stick like glue.
And when I wanna be happy, my heart just groans ‘cause of my sins; but I know who it is I trust in.
My God’s been my backbone; He’s led me through tough times in the wild; and He kept me safe on them deep waters.
He done filled me up with His love, right down to my bones.
He’s made my enemies shuffle their feet when they see me.
Just look, He heard my cries during the day, and at night, He gave me wisdom through visions.
And during the day, I’ve been brave in prayin’ real hard to Him; yep, I’ve sent my voice up high, and angels came down to lend me a hand.
And through the wings of His Spirit, my body’s been carried high up on them mountains. My eyes have seen some powerful things, even too mighty for a man to write down.
So, if I’ve seen all these grand things, and the Lord’s shown so much mercy to folks, why should my heart be sad and my soul linger in the low valley, and my body wear down, and my strength grow weak because of my troubles?
And why should I cave in to sin ‘cause of my flesh? Yeah, why should I give in to temptations, lettin’ that evil one take root in my heart and mess with my peace and weigh down my soul? Why am I mad because of my enemies?
Hey now, wake up, soul of mine! Don’t let sin keep draggin’ you down. Rejoice, my heart, and don’t give any room for the enemy of my soul.
Don’t let my enemies get me all fired up again. Don’t let my strength slack off because of my troubles.
Rejoice, my heart, and call out to the Lord, and say: Oh Lord, I’ll praise you forever; yeah, my soul’s gonna be happy in you, my God, and the rock of my salvation.
Oh Lord, will you save my soul? Will you pull me out of my enemies’ clutches? Will you help me be shakin’ in front of sin?
May them gates of hell stay shut real tight ‘cause my heart’s broken and my spirit’s low! Oh Lord, don’t you keep the gates of your righteousness closed on me, so I can walk the path through the low valley, and keep it real on the straight road!
Oh Lord, wrap me up in the robe of your righteousness! Oh Lord, make a way for me to escape before my enemies! Make my path straight in front of me! Don’t throw a tripwire in my way – clear my path up ahead and keep my enemies from blockin’ it.
Oh Lord, I’ve trusted in you, and I’m gonna keep on trusting forever. I won’t lean on my own flesh; ‘cause I know it’s cursed to trust in flesh. Yep, cursed is anyone who trusts in man or makes flesh their strength.
Yeah, I know God gives plenty to the one who asks. Yep, my God will give to me if I’m askin’ right; so I’m gonna lift my voice to you; yep, I’m gonna cry out to you, my God, the rock of my righteousness. Just look, my voice is gonna keep risin’ up to you, my rock and everlasting God. Amen.
