Well, lemme tell ya, it all went down like this, I, Nephi, found myself hollerin’ a whole lot to the Lord, 'cause my brothers were mighty mad at me.
Now, wouldn’t ya know it, their fury just kept growin', so much so that they wanted to end my existence.
Shoot, they were grumblin’, sayin': “Our little brother thinks he’s gonna be in charge of us; we’ve been put through the wringer ‘cause of him; let’s just take him out so we ain’t gotta deal with his jabberin' no more. We just ain’t havin’ him as our chief; that’s our right as the older brothers to lead this bunch.”
I ain’t gonna write down all the nasty stuff they said ‘bout me, but lemme just say, they were dead set on takin’ my life.
Then the Lord gave me the heads-up to skedaddle outta there, take off into the wild, and gather up anyone who wanted to join me.
So, I packed up my fam, along with Zoram and his kin, Sam my big brother and his family, along with Jacob and Joseph, my brothers, and even my sisters, all them who was willin’ to follow me. And everyone who tagged along was folks who believed in God’s warnings, so they listened to what I had to say.
We loaded up our tents and whatever we could carry and set off into the wilderness for a long stretch of time. After wanderin’ a good long while, we finally set up camp.
Now, my folks thought we oughta name the spot Nephi, so that’s what we went and done.
And everyone rollin’ with me decided to call ourselves the people of Nephi.
We made sure to stick to the laws, judgments, and commandments of the Lord in every little thing, just like Moses taught.
And let me tell ya, the Lord was with us; we were doin’ real good; we sowed our seeds, and boy oh boy, did we reap a bountiful harvest. We even started raisin’ flocks and herds, all kinds of critters.
I also brought along them records carved on thick brass plates, and that compass the Lord had a hand in makin’ for my daddy, like it was written down.
Well, before ya knew it, we started thrivin’ and multiplyin’ across the land.
I took Laban’s sword and fashioned a whole bunch of swords, just in case them folks now called Lamanites decided to come at us; I knew they had a vendetta against me and my clan.
I taught my people how to build stuff, workin’ with wood, iron, copper, brass, steel, gold, silver, and all them precious rocks—there was plenty of ‘em around. 
I went ahead and built a temple, structured kinda like Solomon’s, but without all the fancy stuff ‘cause it just wasn’t around in our neck of the woods. But still, it sure looked good, like Solomon's temple, with fine craftsmanship.
So it came to pass that I got my folks bein’ real hard workers, laborin’ with their hands.
They figured they wanted me as their king. But I, Nephi, didn’t want them havin’ no king; still, I did what I could for ‘em.
And wouldn’t ya know it, the Lord’s words came true for my brothers, that I’d be their leader and teacher. So I was their leader and teacher, ‘til they got that crazy idea to take me out.
That’s when the word of the Lord came to pass tellin’ me that since they wouldn’t listen to my words, they’d be cut off from His presence. And lo and behold, they were.
He went and put a curse on ‘em, a rough one, ‘cause of their wickedness. They hardened their hearts against Him, turnin’ themselves into hard stones; once fair and lovely, the Lord made their skin dark as a reminder to my people.
And the good Lord said: I’ll make ‘em repulsive to your folks, ‘less they turn from their wrongs.
And let me tell ya, cursed be the descendants of anyone who mixes in with ‘em, ‘cause they’ll share in that same curse. That’s what the Lord said, and it happened just like that.
‘Cause of that curse, they turned into a lazy bunch, full of mischief and cunning, lookin’ for beasts to hunt in the wild.
The Lord God told me: They gonna be a bother to your lineage, always stirring ‘em up to remember me; and if they dawdle in forgettin’ me and not listenin’, they gonna be harassed right until they’re wiped out.
And then it happened that I, Nephi, dedicated Jacob and Joseph as priests and teachers to look after my people.
And wouldn’t ya know, we was livin’ a pretty happy life.
A whole thirty years slid on by since we bolted from Jerusalem.
And I, Nephi, was keepin’ the records on the plates I made about our people up to that point.
Then the Lord God said to me: Go ahead and make some more plates; and you’ll write all kinds of good stuff on ‘em for your folks to benefit from.
So, bein’ obedient to what the Lord commanded, I went and made these plates and etched on ‘em what I thought was right nice.
I engraved things that’d please God, and if my people like the good things of God, they’ll surely like the stuff I’ve put on these here plates.
And if they want the deep-down details of my people’s history, they gotta look up my other plates.
And it’s enough to say that forty years passed us by, and we was already caught up in wars and quarrels with our brothers.
