Well now, let me tell ya 'bout the words of Jacob, Nephi's brother, what he shared with the folks of Nephi:
Lookee here, my dear brothers, I’m Jacob, y’know, called by God and set apart in that holy order way, consecrated by my bro Nephi, the one y’all look to like a king or a protector, and you lean on him for your safety. I reckon y’all know I’ve been yappin' at ya a whole heap.
But shoot, I’m gonna talk to ya again 'cause I really care 'bout yer souls. Yup, I’m mighty worried 'bout y’all; bet y’all know I always have been. I’ve been pushin’ ya hard, teachin’ ya what my daddy told me, and spillin' all the stories from the very start of this ol’ world.
Now, look here, I want to chat 'bout what’s goin’ on and what’s comin’ down the pike; so I’m fixin’ to read you the words of Isaiah. These are the words my brother wanted me to share with you. I’m speakin’ to y’all for yer own good, hopin’ y’all might learn and give some glory to the name of your God.
Now, the words I’m ‘bout to read are what Isaiah said ‘bout all the house of Israel, and that means y’all too, since ya come from that house. There’s a whole heap of things Isaiah said that fit right with you, ‘cause y’all are part of that house of Israel.
So, here’s what the Lord God said: Listen up, I’m gonna lift my hand to the Gentiles and set my standard for the folks; they’ll be carryin’ yer sons in their arms and holdin’ yer daughters on their shoulders.
Kings will be like the daddies nursin’ ya, and queens like the mommas nursin’ ya; they’ll bow down to you with their faces in the dirt and lick the dust off yer feet; and you’ll know I’m the Lord, ‘cause them what wait on me ain’t gonna feel no shame.
Now, I, Jacob, wanna say a few words 'bout these here sayings. Look, the Lord’s shown me that them folks over in Jerusalem, where we hailed from, done got slain and dragged off all captive.
But hold on, the Lord’s also shown me that they gonna come back home again. Plus, He’s revealed to me that the Lord God, the Holy One of Israel, is gonna show up in the flesh; and after He shows His face, they gonna whip Him and nail Him down, just like that angel told me.
And once they go hard-headed and stiffen their necks against the Holy One, that's when the judgments of the Holy One of Israel will be comin’ down on ‘em. The day surely comes when they gonna get smacked and be all afflicted.
So, after they’ve been tossed 'round, ‘cause that’s what the angel said, plenty gonna be afflicted right here on earth, and they won’t be allowed to just vanish ‘cause of the prayers from the faithful; they’ll be spread out, hurtin’, and bein' hated. But still, the Lord will show mercy, and when they remember their Redeemer, they’ll be gathered back to their lands and all.
And them Gentiles, bless their hearts, they’re who the prophet wrote about; 'cause if they get themselves to repent and don’t fight against Zion and steer clear of that big ol’ abominable church, they're gonna be saved; the Lord God’s gonna keep His promises to His children, and that’s why the prophet put pen to paper on this.
Now, those who’re fightin’ against Zion and the Lord’s covenant folks gonna eat the dust off their feet; and the Lord’s people ain’t gonna feel no shame. For the Lord’s people are those who keep on waitin’ for Him; they still lookin’ forward to the Messiah’s arrival.
And listen up, just like the prophet said, the Messiah's gonna show up again for a second time to bring ‘em back; and He’ll reveal Himself with power and great glory, puttin’ an end to all their enemies when that day comes that they believe in Him; and none of them who believe in Him will be destroyed.
But those who don’t believe in Him? Well, they gonna meet their end, by fire and storm, and earthquakes, and bloodshed, and sickness, and hunger. And they gonna know that the Lord is God, the Holy One of Israel.
Now, is it possible to snatch away the prey from the mighty, or to set free the lawful captive?
Well, here’s what the Lord said: Even the strong will lose their captives, and the prey of the mighty will be let go; ‘cause the Mighty God’s gonna rescue His covenant folks. For the Lord said: I’m gonna go to bat against ‘em that’re goin’ against you—
And I’ll feed them that’s givin’ you a hard time with their own flesh; they gonna get all drunk on their own blood like it’s sweet wine; and all flesh will know that I, the Lord, am your Savior and your Redeemer, the Mighty One of Jacob.
