The Book of Alma the Son of Alma
This here’s a tale 'bout Alma, the offspring of old Alma, who was the top dog judge ruling over the Nephite folks, and also the high priest of their congregation. It's a tale of the judge’s reign, the spats and scuffles they had, and the big brawls between the Nephites and them Lamanites, as told in the record of Alma, the first and main judge.
Nehor preached a bunch of falsehoods, set up his own church, introduced some slick priestcraft, and went and did in Gideon—then Nehor got the noose for his misdeeds—those crafty priests and their persecution spread like wildfire among the folks—those priests took care of themselves while the townsfolk tended to the needy, and the church thrived. 'Bout 91–88 B.C.
Now in the very first year of the judges ruling over the Nephites, after King Mosiah had ridden off into the sunset, having fought a good fight and walked true before God, leaving no one to take his place; he set down some laws that folks had to follow, and they all nodded their heads in agreement.
Then it turned out that on his first year sittin’ in the judge’s chair, Alma had a hefty fella brought up before him, to be judged, a man known far and wide for his great strength.
This big feller was wanderin’ 'round, preachin’ what he called the word of God, throwin’ shade at the church; he was tellin’ folks that every priest and teacher oughta be a big deal and shouldn’t have to work with their hands, but oughta be taken care of by the crowd.
And he also hollered at the folks that all humans would be saved in the end, and they shouldn’t be scared or shaken, but oughta lift their heads high and be joyful; 'cause the Lord made all mankind and redeemed 'em all; and, in the end, everyone would have eternal life.
Well, he taught this so much that plenty of folks started to buy into his words, so many that they began givin’ him their hard-earned cash.
His head got all puffed up with pride, and he started wearin’ fancy duds, sure 'nough, and even aimed to set up his own church after his preachin’.
Then on his way to spread the word to his followers, he crossed paths with a fella who was part of the Lord’s church, a teacher, and he went to butting heads with him, tryin' to lead the church folk astray; but the teacher held his ground, scoldin’ him with the good book.
This fella’s name was Gideon; he was a tool in God’s kit when it came time to rescue the folks of Limhi from their chains.
Now, ‘cause Gideon stood firm with the scripture, Nehor got madder than a hornet, drew his sword, and started whackin’ at him. Gideon, aged and worn, couldn't take the hits, and so he fell by the sword.
The crowd that saw it scooped up Nehor and brought him before Alma to face the music for his crimes.
He stood there before Alma, full of sass and boldness, plead’n his case.
But Alma called him out: “This here’s a first for priestcraft to roll into this town. And listen here, you ain’t just guilty of that, you’ve tried to shove it down folks’ throats with your sword; if we let priestcraft take root here, it’d be the end of us.”
“You’ve spilled the blood of a good man, who’s done right by this people; if we let you off the hook, his blood’ll haunt us for vengeance.”
“Thus, you’re sentenced to hang for what you've done, according to old Mosiah’s law; that’s the way the folks see it, and they gotta stick by it.”
So they took him, called him Nehor, and dragged him up to the top of Manti Hill, where he had to admit to the heavens and the earth that what he preached went against God’s word; and there, he met a humbling end.
But that didn’t put an end to priestcraft spreadin' like prairie fire; plenty folks loved their fancy trinkets, so they took to preachin’ falsehoods, all in the name of riches and reputation.
Yet, they didn’t dare lie too much, 'cause there was fear of the law—liars were dealt with swiftly; so they pretended to preach their beliefs; and the law had no power over folks just for thinkin’ differently.
And they wouldn’t steal, neither, ’cause the law had a tight grip on that; and they sure didn’t rob or murder, 'cause if you did, you’d be lookin' up at the hangman.
But it turned out that anyone not in the Lord’s church began to give them folks a tough time, those who wore the name of Christ.
Yep, they went after 'em, throwin’ all kinds of harsh words at 'em, all because they were humble; they weren’t struttin’ around thinkin’ they were better, and they shared the word of God among each other without askin’ for a dime.
Now, there was a solid law among the church folks that no one should rise up and persecute folks outside their congregation, nor should there be any scuffles within their own.
Still, some got a bit too high and mighty and ended up brawlin’ with those on the other side, throwin' punches at each other.
This all went down in the second year of Alma’s judgeship, and it caused a heap of trouble for the church; sure did stir up a lot of trials for 'em.
Many hearts grew hard, and their names got wiped clean, forgotten among God’s people. A whole pile of folks just decided to pack up and leave.
For those standing firm in the faith, it surely was a heavy test; still, they held steady and unmovable, followin’ God’s commandments, takin’ the heap of persecution with patience.
When the priests set aside their other work to share God’s word with the folks, them folks also laid down their tasks to listen. Once the priests got done preachin’, they all got back to workin' hard; 'cause the preacher wasn’t better than the listener, nor the teacher above the student; they stood equal and toiled away, each man pullin’ his own weight.
They shared what they had, each givin' what they could to the poor, the sick, and the needy; they didn’t wear fancy clothes, but they kept things neat and tidy.
And this is how they got their church affairs in order; thus, they found peace again, in spite of all the grief they faced.
Thanks to the church holdin’ steady, they ended up doin’ mighty fine, stackin’ up plenty of everything they needed—lots of critters and livestock of all sorts, bushels of grain, collections of gold and silver, and fine fabrics of every kind, along with good ole cloth.
So, with all their good fortune, they didn’t send anyone away who was hungry, thirsty, naked, or sick; they didn’t get too caught up in riches; ‘cause they were generous to all, young and old, free and bond, man and woman, inside or outside the church, not showin’ favoritism to anyone who needed help.
And so they prospered and became far richer than those who didn’t share their faith.
Them folks who weren’t in the church indulged in their witchery, idol-worship, and laziness, jabberin’ away, envyin’ and scrapin’; they wore fancy threads, strutted their stuff, persecuted, lied, stole, committed all kinds of wickedness, but the law came down hard on anyone who stepped outta line, as best as it could.
And this way, by puttin' the law into play, each person receiving their due for their deeds, they quieted down, afraid to commit sins if they knew it’d come to light; thus, there was much peace among the Nephite folks until the fifth year of the judges’ reign.
