Lehi rode on down from Manasseh—Amulek tells of the angel’s order for him to look after Alma—The prayers of the good folks saved the lot from ruin—Crooked lawyers and judges laid the groundwork for the folks' downfall. 'Bout 82 B.C.
Now here’s the lowdown that Amulek shared with the folks down in Ammonihah, sayin':
I’m Amulek; son of Giddonah, the son of Ishmael, a descendant of Aminadi; and it was Aminadi who deciphered the writing on the temple wall, scrawled by the finger of God.
And Aminadi traced his roots back to Nephi, who was the son of Lehi, who lit out from Jerusalem, and was kin to Manasseh, the son of Joseph who got sold off to Egypt by his own brothers.
Now, lemme tell ya, I’m a man of some standing in this here country; I’ve got kinfolk and pals aplenty, and I’ve rustled up quite a bit of riches through my own hard work.
But even with all that, I didn’t know much ‘bout the ways of the Lord, or his secrets and splendid power. I thought I didn’t know ‘bout them things; but I reckon I was wrong, ‘cause I’ve seen lots of his mysteries and mighty works; yep, right down to saving the lives of this here people.
Still, I went and hardened my heart, with the call ringing in my ears many a time, but I turned a deaf ear; I knew about these matters, yet I didn’t wanna know; so I kept on wanderin’ away from God, caught up in my wicked heart, right up to the fourth day of the seventh month, which is in the tenth year of the judges' rule.
While I was ridin’ to visit some close kin, lo and behold, an angel of the Lord showed up and said: Amulek, head back home, for you’ll be feedin’ a prophet of the Lord; yup, a holy man, handpicked by God; he’s been starved from fastin’ many days over the sins of the folks, and he’s a-hungry, and you’re to take him into your home and feed him, and he’ll bless you and yours; and God’s blessings will rest upon you and your family.
So it happened that I heeded the angel’s words and made my way back home. As I was travelin’, I stumbled upon the man that the angel told me to take in—and sure as shootin’, it was the very same fella who’s been preachin’ to ya 'bout God’s doings.
And the angel told me he’s a holy man; and I reckon I know he’s holy, ‘cause it was declared by an angel of God.
And again, I know that what he’s testified to is true; for I’m here to tell ya, as the Lord lives, he sent his angel to make all this known to me; and that’s been true while Alma was stayin’ at my place.
For you see, he’s blessed my homestead, blessed me, my womenfolk, my young’uns, my old man, and all my kin; goodness gracious, he’s blessed all my relations, and the Lord’s blessings have rested upon us just like he said.
Now, when Amulek shared this, folks started to gawk, seein’ there was more than one witness testifying to them things they were accused of, and even of things to come, on account of the prophetic spirit in ‘em.
But, there were some pesky souls who plotted to trip ‘em up, thinkin’ their clever schemes could snag ‘em in their own words, findin’ somethin’ to use against ‘em, so they could throw ‘em before the judges to face the law, hopin’ they’d be sentenced to hang or be tossed in jail, dependin’ on what crime they could conjure up.
Now these fellas who wanted to see ‘em destroyed were lawyers, hired or chosen by the folks to officiate the law during the trials, or when folks faced the judges ‘bout their wrongdoing.
These lawyers were learned in all the tricks and crafts of the people; and that was so they could be sharp in their trade.
So it happened them lawyers started to interrogate Amulek, hopin’ to catch him in a slip of the tongue, or get him to contradict his own words.
But they didn’t realize that Amulek could see right through their plans. But as they started askin’ him questions, he sensed their thoughts, and he hollered: O ye wicked and twisted generation, ye lawyers and hypocrites, for ye are layin’ the groundwork for the devil; you’re puttin’ out baits and traps to snag the holy ones of God.
You’re puttin’ together schemes to corrupt the ways of the righteous, and bringin’ God’s wrath down on your own heads, leadin’ to total ruin for this people.
Yup, Mosiah, our last king, put it right when he was fixin’ to hand over the kingdom, havin’ nobody to pass it to, steerin’ that this people oughta be governed by their own voices—yup, he foresaw that if the time ever came when this people chose wickedness, that is, if they fell into sin, they’d be ripe for destruction.
And now I’m tellin’ you that the Lord knows all about your wickedness; rightly does he call to this people, through his angels: Repent now, repent, for the kingdom of heaven is comin’ quick.
Yup, he’s cryin’ out, through his angels, that: I will come down among my people, bringin’ fairness and justice in my hands.
Yup, and I tell you that if it weren’t for the prayers of the righteous here amongst you, you’d be lookin’ at total annihilation right now; but it wouldn’t be by flood, like in the days of Noah, no sir, it’d be famine, and plague, and sword.
But it’s by the prayers of the good folks that y’all are bein’ spared; so now, if you plan to cast out the righteous from your midst, then the Lord’s gonna stop holdin’ back his hand; in his fierce anger, he’ll come out swingin’ at you; you’ll be struck down by famine, plague, and sword; and that day is closin’ in unless you change your ways.
And it came to pass that the folks got more riled up at Amulek, and they hollered, sayin’: This fella’s slingin’ mud at our fair laws and our wise lawyers that we’ve picked.
But Amulek reached out his hand and cried out even louder, sayin’: O ye wicked and twisted generation, why has Satan got such a deep grip on your hearts? Why will you bend your backs for him, lettin’ him blind your eyes to the truths bein’ shared?
‘Cause I ask ya, have I stood against your law? You don’t comprehend; you reckon I’ve spoken against your law, but that ain’t so; I’ve been speakin’ in support of your law, for your own judgment.
And now, let me spell it out for ya, the very roots of this people’s downfall are bein’ laid down by the unrighteousness of your lawyers and judges.
And it happened that when Amulek let these words fly, the folks cried out against him, sayin’: We know now that this fella’s a child of the devil, 'cause he’s spun us a yarn; he’s gone and talked smack ‘bout our law. And now he swears he hasn’t.
And again, he’s dissed our lawyers, and our judges.
And it came to pass that the lawyers decided to keep a close watch on him for his words.
And one amongst ‘em, named Zeezrom, he was the most adamant to accuse Amulek and Alma, bein’ one of the sharpest tools in the shed, with plenty of dealings among the crowds.
Now the aim of these lawyers was to rake in some profit; and they did so hand over fist in their trade.
