Well now, Alma, seein’ that Amulek had put a stop to Zeezrom's tall tales, ‘cause he could tell ol' Zeezrom was shakin’ in his boots knowin’ he’d been caught lyin’ and schemin’, opened his mouth and started jawin’ at him, backin’ up Amulek’s words and kind of expandin’ on what’s been writ down in the good book.
The crowd was thick ‘round ‘em, so when Alma got a-goin’, everyone was all ears as he laid it on thick like this:
“Zeezrom, partner, you’ve been rode hard and put away wet in your fibbin’ and trickery. Ain’t just folks you’ve been deceivin’ but the Big Guy upstairs too; He’s got your number and knows all them thoughts bouncin' ‘round in that noggin of yours, and thanks to His Spirit, we’ve got a peek into your mind too;
You see, we know your game was about as crafty as a coyote in a henhouse, tryin’ to lead this fine bunch astray so they’d be all riled up against us, yellin’ and lookin’ to see us kicked out—
This here plan was put together by your nemesis, and he’s had you in his grips. Now, I want you folks to take this to heart, ‘cause what I’m sayin’ goes for all y’all.
Now pay close attention, ‘cause this here is a trap set by the adversary, aimed to snare this good people, tryin’ to bind ya up in chains, servin’ him like some kind of prisoner to bring ya down to ruination, just like he’s done before.
When Alma laid those words out, Zeezrom started tremblin’ like a leaf in a windstorm, ‘cause he was comin' face to face with the might of God; and he figured out that Alma and Amulek weren’t blind to what was goin’ on in his heart ‘cause they had power givin’ them the insight to understand these things, all wrapped up in the spirit of prophecy.
So, Zeezrom started fussin’ and askin’ questions, keen to learn more ‘bout the kingdom of God. He turned to Alma and said, “What in tarnation does Amulek mean about folks risin’ from the dead? That everybody, both the good and the wicked, will stand before God to get judged on their doin’s?”
Then Alma wasted no time, explainin’ right smart: “Well, it’s given to a number to know the hidden things of God; but there’s a strict rule, y’see, that they can only share according to what He allows, dependin’ on how much heed you give Him and how hard you’re willin’ to work at it.
So if a feller hardens his heart, he’ll only get a taste of the word; but if he keeps his heart soft, he’ll be blessed with the bigger share, ‘till he’s got it all figured out and learns the mysteries fully.
And them that bury their hearts in stubbornness get just a smidgen of the truth ‘til they’re in the dark about His secrets; and then, trouble starts, leadin’ them straight under the devil’s spell, which is what those chains of hell are all about.
Amulek has laid it plain as day about death, and bein’ raised up from this life to somethin’ eternal, standin’ in front of God to get judged on our actions.
If we’ve hardened our hearts, lettin’ the word slip right on past us, reckon our fate’s gonna be grim, ‘cause we’ll be found guilty as charged.
All the things we say will damn us, right alongside our actions; we ain’t gonna come out clean, and even our thoughts will be held against us; in that dreadful moment, we won’t dare to lift our eyes to God; we’d be wishin’ we could command the boulders and the mountains to tumble down and hide us from His presence.
But that don’t play out, we gotta come forward and stand in His glow and power and show the world His greatness, admitting with all our shame that His judgments are true; He don’t play favorites, and He’s mighty generous to anyone, man or woman, who puts their faith in His name and takes steps to mend their ways.
Now let me tell ya, when that death comes lurkin’, the second one that’s a spiritual death, it’s the time when folks that kick the bucket in their sins, even just the first death of this life, will also be meetin’ a spiritual end; they’ll be dead in spirit when it comes to the good things.
Then their sufferin’ will be like a simmerin’ lake of fire and brimstone, blazin’ away forever; and they’ll be chained down to an eternal end, in the grip of Satan, who’s got ‘em under his thumb.
They’ll be in a state as if no redemption had ever been made, ‘cause they can’t be brought back to the light, seein’ as how there’s no more corruption for ‘em to go through.
Well, after Alma finished chattin’, folks started gettin’ mighty astonished by what they heard;
But there was this feller named Antionah, a big chief among ‘em, who stepped up and asked, “What’s this you’re sayin’, that folks rise from the dead and transform from this regular life to an immortal one, that the soul don’t ever die?”
“What do the good book mean when it says God placed cherubs and a flaming sword at the east end of Eden, so our foreparents couldn’t waltz in and grab a bite of the tree of life and live forever? Looks to me like they were stuck from livin’ eternally.”
Alma shot back, “Well, this is what I was fixin’ to explain. Seems when Adam took a bite of that forbidden fruit, he was doin’ what God told him not to do, and that’s when the whole human lot fell into trouble and loss.
Listen here, if it were feasible for Adam to have eaten from that tree of life back then, we’d all be left in the lurch, never seein’ death, and God’s word would be a lie, ‘cause He said, ‘If you munch on that fruit, you’ll surely die.’
And we see death settled down on mankind, the kind that Amulek was talkin’ about, that temporary death; still, there was a time granted to folks to make amends; so this life became a sort of trial—a chance to get ready to meet God and prepare for that endless life we’ve been yappin’ about which follows after the dead rise again.
Without the plan of redemption that’s been hammered out since time began, there’d be no resurrection at all; but the good Lord set the wheels in motion to ultimately bring folks back from the grave, just like we’ve mentioned.
Now, if it had been in the cards for our foreparents to munch on that good ol’ tree of life, they’da found themselves forever miserable, bein’ in no preparatory state; so the whole redemption plan woulda gone to pot, and God’s word would have been just hot air, carryin’ no weight.
But that ain’t how it went down; it was set in stone that men gotta shuffle off this mortal coil, and after kickin' the bucket, they gotta face judgment, just like we’ve been sayin’, and that’s the end of the line.
Once God decided these things were the way of it for mankind, He figured folks oughta know what’s on the horizon;
So, He sent angels down to have a chinwag with them, showin' ‘em a glimpse of His glory.
From that point on, they started callin' on His name; so God was talkin’ to folks, and revealin’ to ‘em the grand plan for redemption that had been ready from the get-go; and He shared that with ‘em based on their faith, repentance, and righteous doin’s.
Thus, He handed down commandments ‘cause they had first gone and broken the initial rules, tryin’ to be like gods, knowin’ right from wrong, puttin’ themselves in a position to act—able to choose their own paths, whether to stray or stay on the right side—
So God gave ’em rules again once they’d understood the redemption plan, warnin’ ‘em not to go off the rails, ‘cause the consequence of that would be a second death—a never-ending one when it comes to righteousness; ‘cause without a doubt, the redemption plan wouldn’t stand a chance against the scales of justice, which are firmly grounded in the goodness of God.
But God hollered out to the folks in the name of His Son, (the redemption plan we’ve been talkin’ ‘bout) sayin’: If ye’ll up and repent, and don’t harden your hearts, I’ll be there with mercy through the Only Begotten Son;
So, whoever repents and keeps his heart in check will claim the mercy comin’ through My Only Begotten Son, leadin’ to forgiveness for his wrongdoings; those people’ll find their way into my rest.
But anyone who hardens his heart and strays will find out real quick that I swear in my fury he won’t enter into my rest.
So now, my friends, I’m tellin’ you, if you harden your hearts, you won’t step into the Lord’s rest; your misdeeds rile Him up so much that He brings down His wrath upon ya, just like in times gone by, and just like He did the first time, that’ll lead you right into the everlasting doom of your souls; and that’s goin’ to be the finish for y’all, like the first death, but worse.
And now, my friends, seein’ we’re all on the same page, let’s turn our hearts ‘round and not harden ‘em, so we don’t provoke the good Lord to unleash His anger down upon us because of these second commandments He’s given; let’s step into the peace of God that’s all prepared just waitin’ for us."
