Fellas are picked as high priests ‘cause they got a heap of faith and doin' good works—They oughta teach the commandments—Through bein’ righteous, they get made clean and find rest in the Lord—Melchizedek was one of ‘em—Angels are spreadin’ good news all around—They’re gonna holler about the real deal comin’ of Christ. 'Bout 82 B.C.
And again, my brethren, I’m a-gonna remind ya of the time when the Lord God handed down these commandments to His young’uns; and I reckon you oughta keep it in mind that the Lord God set apart priests, after His holy order, which was just like the order of His Son, to teach these things to the folks.
Those priests got ordained like His Son, so folks would know how to look ahead to His Son for their salvation.
And here’s how they got ordained—called and ready from the get-go ‘cause God knew ‘em right from the start, on account of their mighty faith and good deeds; first off, they could pick good or bad; so they chose the good, and showin’ some mighty strong faith, they’re called with a holy calling, yep, that holy calling which was set up with a preparatory redemption for that sort of person.
And so they’ve been called to this holy calling ‘cause of their faith, while others turned their backs on the Spirit of God due to their hard hearts and blind minds, while, if it hadn’t been for that, they might’ve had just as good a chance as their brethren.
To put it simply, at first they were on even ground with their brethren; this holy calling was ready from the foundation of the world for those who wouldn’t harden their hearts, bein’ in and through the atonement of the Only Begotten Son, who was set up—
And so bein’ called by this holy calling, and made a high priest of God’s holy order, to teach His commandments to the homesteaders, so they, too, might find rest—
This here high priesthood bein’ like His Son, that order stretchin’ back to the start of time; or in other words, it’s without beginnin’ or end, bein’ ready from eternity to all eternity, in light of His foreknowledge of all things—
Now they got ordained this way—called with a holy calling, ordained with a holy ordinance, and takin’ up the high priesthood of the holy order, which calling, and ordinance, and high priesthood, it’s without a start or finish—
Thus they become high priests forever, after the order of the Son, the Only Begotten of the Father, who’s without a beginning or an end, who’s packed full of grace, equity, and truth. And that’s the way it is. Amen.
Now, as I said ‘bout the holy order, or this high priesthood, there were many who got ordained and became high priests of God; and it was ‘cause of their mighty faith and repentin’, and their righteousness before God, choosin’ to repent and do the right thing instead of bein’ lost;
So they got called after this holy order, and were made clean, and their garments got washed white through the blood of the Lamb.
Now they, after bein’ sanctified by the Holy Ghost, with their garments white and clean before God, couldn’t stand to look on sin ‘cept with hatred; and there were many, a whole mess of ‘em, who got pure and found rest with the Lord their God.
And now, my brethren, I’d like ya to low yourself before God, and bring forth fruit fit for repentin’, so ya might also find that rest.
Yep, humble yourselves like folks from the days of Melchizedek, who also was a high priest in the same order I’ve been talkin’ ‘bout, who took upon himself the high priesthood forever.
And it was this same Melchizedek that Abraham paid tithes to; yep, even our old man Abraham paid a tenth of all he had.
Now these ordinances were given like this, so the folks could look ahead to the Son of God, bein’ a type of His order, ‘cause it was His order, and this that they could look to Him for a washin’ of their sins, that they might find rest with the Lord.
Now this Melchizedek was a king over the land of Salem; and his folks got mighty strong in sin and abomination; yep, they all strayed off; they were full of all sorts of wickedness;
But Melchizedek had a heap of faith, and received the high priesthood ‘cordin’ to God’s holy order, preached repentin’ to his folks. And guess what, they did repent; and Melchizedek did establish peace in the land in his days; that’s why they called him the prince of peace, for he was the king of Salem; he ruled under his father.
Now, there were many before him, and plenty after, but none were greater; so they mentioned him more particularly.
Now I ain't gotta repeat this; what I’ve said is enough. Look here, the scriptures are right in front of you; if you twist ‘em it’ll land you in hot water.
And now it came to pass that when Alma had said these words to ‘em, he reached out his hand to ‘em and hollered with a mighty voice, sayin’: Now’s the time to repent, ‘cause the day of salvation is a-comin’ fast;
Yep, and the voice of the Lord, by way of angels, is shoutin’ it out to all nations; yep, is shoutin’ it, so they can get the good news of great joy; yep, and He’s soundin’ this good news to all His people, even to those scattered abroad across the face of the earth; that’s why they came to us.
And they’re made known to us in plain speech, so we can understand, and know we can’t go wrong; and this ‘cause we’re wanderers in a strange land; thus, we’re mighty favored, for we’ve got this good news declared to us in all parts of our vineyard.
For look here, angels are spreadin’ it to many at this time in our land; and this is to prepare the hearts of the children of men to take in His word when He comes in His glory.
And now we just wait to hear the joyful news declared to us by angels, ‘bout His coming; ‘cause the time’s comin’, we don’t know how soon. I sure wish it’d be in my lifetime; but let it be sooner or later, I’ll be happy either way.
And it’ll be revealed to just and holy men, through angels, when He comes, so that the words of our fathers might be fulfilled, ‘cordin’ to what they’ve said about Him, which was in line with the spirit of prophecy that was in ‘em.
And now, my brethren, I wish from the bottom of my heart, with great worry even to pain, that ya’ll would lend an ear to my words, and shake off your sins, and not put off the day of your repentin’;
But that ya would humble yourselves before the Lord, and call on His holy name, and keep watch and pray constantly, so ya won’t be tempted above what you can handle, and thus be led by the Holy Spirit, bein’ humble, meek, submissive, patient, filled with love and long-sufferin’;
Havin’ faith in the Lord; holdin’ on to the hope that ya’ll will get eternal life; havin’ the love of God always in your hearts, so ya can be lifted up on that last day and enter into His rest.
And may the Lord grant you repentance, so you don’t bring down His wrath on you, so ya don’t get bound up by the chains of hell, so ya don’t suffer the second death.
And Alma spoke many more words to the folks, which ain’t written in this here book.
