Well, it happened after Alma had finished jawin' with the folks, a good number of 'em took a shine to his words, started feelin' remorseful, and dug into them holy books.
But most of the crowd was riled up, fixin' to do away with Alma and Amulek, mad at Alma for bein' so straightforward with Zeezrom; they claimed Amulek was spoutin' lies and blasphemin’ their laws along with their lawyers and judges.
Them fellas were real fired up against Alma and Amulek; since they’d spoke so plainly ‘bout the folks’ wicked ways, they schemed to get rid of ‘em sneakily.
But lo and behold, they didn’t manage that; instead, they tied ‘em up tight with some sturdy ropes and dragged ‘em in front of the chief judge of the land.
And folks showed up, givin’ testimony against ‘em—sayin' they had disrespected the law and the lawyers and judges all over, and they also said there was just one God, but that he wouldn’t save ‘em, tossin’ out many other accusations against Alma and Amulek before the main judge.
Then Zeezrom, he got all shell-shocked by the things bein’ said; he realized how his own lies had blinded the folks, and he started feelin’ the weight of his own sins weighin’ him down, like he was bein’ surrounded by the fires of hell.
He started hollerin’ at the crowd, sayin': “Hey now, I’m guilty, but these men are clean as a whistle in God’s eyes.” And from that moment on, he started plead’n for ‘em, but they just mocked him, askin': “You got the devil in ya too?” Then they spat on him and chased him away with all who believed Alma and Amulek, throwin' stones at 'em.
Next, they rounded up their womenfolk and young’uns, tossin' anyone who had faith in God into the flames; they even tossed in their holy records and scriptures to get 'em burned up too.
Then they took Alma and Amulek to witness the fiery fate of them folks who were bein’ taken by the flames.
Well, when Amulek saw the agony of the women and kids goin' up in flames, it tore him up inside; he turned to Alma and said: “How can we just stand here watchin’ this horror? Let’s raise our hands and use the power of God in us to save ‘em from the fire.”
But Alma replied: “The Spirit is holdin’ me back, partner; the Lord's takin' 'em to himself, in glory; He’s lettin’ this happen due to the stubbornness of these folks' hearts, so the judgments He'll dish out in His wrath will be fair; the innocent blood will bear witness against ‘em and cry out hard on the last day.”
Now Amulek piped up, “Well shoot, they might just roast us too.”
And Alma said, “If that’s the Lord’s will, let it be so. But we ain't done our work yet; so they won’t burn us just yet.”
After a spell, once the bodies thrown in the flames were turned to ash, and the records were burned up too, the chief judge came standin’ there in front of Alma and Amulek, bound and all; he slapped ‘em across the cheeks, and said: “After seein' all this, will y’all preach again about this folks bein' tossed into a lake of fire?”
“Look here, you see you didn’t have the power to save them from the flames; and Almighty God didn’t save ‘em, ‘cause they weren’t of your faith.” And he smacked ‘em again, demandin': “What do y’all have to say for yourselves?”
Now this judge was shady, followin’ after that Nehor fella who killed Gideon.
And it came to pass that Alma and Amulek didn’t say a word; he smacked ‘em again and sent ‘em off to the officers to get tossed into prison.
Three days passed in the slammer, and then a whole pack of lawyers, judges, priests, and teachers—the kind that followed Nehor—came into the prison to see ‘em, throwin’ questions at ‘em, but they didn’t give away nuthin’.
Then the judge stood in front of 'em, saying: “Why ain’t y’all answerin’ the folks? Don’t you know I got the power to toss you into the flames? Speak up!” But they said nothin’ in reply.
Then they left but returned the next day, and the judge gave ‘em another smack on the cheeks. A lot of folks came too, givin’ 'em blows, shoutin': “Are y’all gonna stand up and judge these folks, condemn our laws? If you’re so powerful, why don’t you save yourselves?”
And they kept on sayin’ all manner of insults to ‘em, gnashin' their teeth and spittin’ on ‘em, askin’: “How in tarnation will we face the fires of damnation?”
Day after day, they mocked ‘em like this, and they withheld food and water, leavin' ‘em all weak, even stripped ‘em down to their skins; thus they were bound tight in ropes and locked away in jail.
After they’d endured all this for many days (on the twelfth day of the tenth month, in the tenth year of the judges’ reign over the Nephites), the chief judge and some of their teachers and lawyers came into the prison where Alma and Amulek were tied up.
The chief judge stood over ‘em, smacked ‘em again, and said: “If you got God’s power, cut yourselves loose, and then I’ll believe that the Lord will wreck this people like y’all said He would.”
Then they all came up and smacked ‘em, repeatin’ them words, all the way to the last fella; and when the last one finished talkin', the power of God hit Alma and Amulek, and they popped up on their feet.
Alma shouted, “How long we gotta put up with these heavy troubles, O Lord? O Lord, give us strength according to our faith in Christ, so we can get outta this bind.” And they broke the ropes that held ‘em, and when the crowd saw this, they began to scatter, fear of destruction settlin' in.
The folks were so scared, they hit the dirt, not makin’ it to the prison’s door; the earth shook like a stampede, and the prison walls split wide open, crashin’ down; and the chief judge, along with the lawyers, priests, and teachers who’d been hittin’ on Alma and Amulek, were crushed under the rubble.
Alma and Amulek strolled out of the prison, comin’ out unscathed, ‘cause the Lord gave 'em power, ‘cause of their faith in Christ. They stepped out from that prison, loosed from their bindings, and the jail had crumbled down, and all inside, ‘sides Alma and Amulek, was taken down; and they marched straight into the city.
When the folks heard that loud ruckus, they came runnin’ from all corners to find out what was goin’ on; and when they laid their eyes on Alma and Amulek poppin’ out of that prison, with the walls smashed to the ground, they were filled with fear and took off like a scared goat runnin’ from two hungry lions; and that’s how they fled from the sight of Alma and Amulek.
