Well, it so happened that Alma and Amulek were told to skedaddle outta that town; so they saddled up and rode right into the land of Sidom, where they stumbled upon folks who had hightailed it from Ammonihah, having been tossed out and pelted with rocks 'cause they believed in what Alma had to say.
They got to jawin’ ‘bout all the rough times their families had faced and the troubles they themselves endured, as well as the mighty power that had saved ‘em.
Now, Zeezrom was layin’ sick as a dog in Sidom, stricken with a fever hotter than a campfire, brought on by the gnawin’ worries in his noggin about his naughty ways. He figured Alma and Amulek were done for; thought they’d bit the dust because of his wickedness. This heavy guilt, along with all of his other wrongs, weighed on his mind like a lead saddle, and he was burnin’ up from it.
But when he caught wind that Alma and Amulek were in Sidom, his spirits perked up somethin’ fierce; so he sent out word quick as a whip, askin’ them to come and see him.
Sure enough, they rode in right away, heed in’ the call he’d sent their way; and when they walked into Zeezrom’s place, they found him laid up in bed, burning up with fever; his mind was troubled deeply 'bout his misdeeds, and when he laid eyes on them, he reached out his hand, beggin’ them to cure him.
Then Alma spoke up, takin’ his hand: “Do ya believe in the power of Christ to save ya?”
Zeezrom replied, “Yep, I believe all the stuff you’ve been teachin’.”
Alma said, “If ya got faith in Christ’s redemption, then ya can be healed.”
And Zeezrom answered, “Sure can, just like you said.”
So then Alma called out to the Lord, sayin’, “Oh Lord, our God, show mercy to this fella and heal him ‘cordin’ to his faith in Christ.”
And when Alma finished his prayer, Zeezrom jumped up like a jackrabbit and started walkin’ around, which left all the folks flabbergasted; news of this miracle spread all across Sidom.
Alma dunked Zeezrom in the water for the Lord; from that point on, Zeezrom was out there preachin’ to the folks.
And Alma set up shop, startin’ a church in the land of Sidom, with priests and teachers named to help baptize everyone lookin’ to turn their lives around.
And it turned out there were plenty of folks; they came pourin’ in from all around Sidom to get baptized.
But the folks back in Ammonihah were still as hard-headed as a mule; they didn’t show any remorse for their sins, claimin’ all the power of Alma and Amulek had to be the work of the devil. They were followers of Nehor and didn’t believe in turnin' away from their wrongdoings.
After Alma had got the church goin’ in Sidom, he noticed the folks startin’ to tame their pride and humble themselves before the Big Man Upstairs. They began gatherin' in their meeting places to worship and pray, hopin’ to be rescued from the clutches of Satan and the jaws of death.
Now, like I mentioned, upon seein’ all these changes, Alma took Amulek and headed over to Zarahemla, brought him to his own homestead, and lent a hand with the troubles he was facin’, givin’ him strength in the Lord.
And that’s how the tenth year of the judges’ reign over the Nephites wrapped up.
