A tale of the sons of Mosiah, who gave up their claim to the throne for the good word of God, and rode up to Nephi land to spread the gospel to the Lamanites; their trials and triumphs—according to Alma's record.
Chapters included stretch through 27.
The sons of Mosiah got the spirit of prophesy and revelations under their saddles—Each one took off in different directions to spread the good news to the Lamanites—Ammon rode out to Ishmael land and became the king’s right-hand man—Ammon saved the king's sheep and fought off his foes at Sebus’ watering hole. Verses 1–3 are set ‘round 77 B.C.; verse 4, about 91–77 B.C.; and verses 5–39, around 91 B.C.
Well, as fate would have it, while Alma was ridin’ south from Gideon, headin’ to Manti, he was mighty surprised to stumble upon the sons of Mosiah, who were headin’ towards Zarahemla.
See, these sons of Mosiah had been with Alma when the angel first made his grand entrance; so Alma was real happy to see his brothers again; and what made his heart swell even more was that they still called him brother in the Lord; yep, they had grown strong in the truth; they were sharp as a tack with good sense, and they had been diggin’ through the scriptures like gold seekers to know the Lord’s word.
But that ain't all; they’d been prayin’ up a storm and fasting a heap; so they had that spirit of prophecy and revelation, and when they preached, they did so with God’s power and authority.
They had been preachin’ God’s word for fourteen long years among the Lamanites, havin’ a pile of success in bringin’ many to know the truth; by the power of their words, many were brought to God’s altar to holler on his name and confess their wrongdoings.
Now these are the troubles that followed ‘em in their travels, ‘cause they faced a heap of struggles; they suffered a lot, both in body and spirit, from hunger, thirst, tiredness, and a whole lot of spiritual toil.
Now here’s how their journey went down: After sayin' their goodbyes to their father, Mosiah, in the first year of the judges; they turned down the crown their father wished to hand over, and so did the folks around them;
Still, they high-tailed it outta Zarahemla, packin’ up swords, spears, bows, arrows, and slings; all to rustle up some grub while they were travellin’ through the wild.
So off they rode into the wilderness with a gang they’d picked out, aim to head to Nephi land to spread the word of God to the Lamanites.
Before too long, they spent many days in the wild, fasting and praying a whole lot, askin’ the Lord to share a piece of his Spirit to be with ‘em, helpin’ them be tools in God’s hands to lead, if it was possible, their brethren, the Lamanites, to understand the truth and see through the muck of their folks’ false traditions.
Then it happened that the Lord did pay ‘em a visit with His Spirit, and told ‘em: Fear not. And they felt their hearts lighten.
And the Lord also told ‘em: Ride forth among the Lamanites, your brethern, and spread my word; just remember to be patient through the hard times, showing ‘em good examples of me, and I will make you instruments in my hands for the salvation of many souls.
Soon the hearts of the sons of Mosiah and their companions took on some courage to ride right up to the Lamanites and declare God’s message.
When they reached the edge of Lamanite land, they split up and went their separate ways, trustin’ in the Lord that they’d meet again once the harvesting was done; they figured the work ahead was mighty big.
And, by golly, it was indeed big, for they had set out to preach God’s word to a wild and fierce group; a crew that took pleasure in huntin’ Nephites, robbin’, and plunderin’; their hearts were set on gold, silver, and precious stones; yet they tried to grab these things by killin’ and stealin’, preferrin’ that over hard work with their own hands.
So they were a lazy lot, many of ‘em worshipped idols, and the curse of God had come upon ‘em because of their fathers’ traditions; still, the Lord had extended promises to them if they’d just repent.
So this was the reason the sons of Mosiah took on this task, hopin’ to lead ‘em to repentance; maybe to show 'em the redemptive plan.
So they went their separate ways, every man ridin’ out alone, according to the word and power of God given to him.
Ammon, bein’ the head honcho among them, gave ‘em a blessing before he took off on his own, after impartin’ the word of God unto them; then they set forth on their journeys through the land.
Ammon made his way to Ishmael land, which was named for the sons of Ishmael, now Lamanites.
As Ammon strolled into Ishmael land, the Lamanites jumped on him and tied him up, per their usual practice with Nephites who fell into their hands, draggin’ ‘em before the king; it was left up to the king to decide whether to take 'em out, keep 'em in shackles, toss 'em in prison, or kick 'em outta his land, depending on his fancy.
So Ammon was brought before the king of Ishmael land, named Lamoni, who was a true descendant of Ishmael.
The king asked Ammon if he wanted to stick around in the land with the Lamanites, or if he’d rather be among his own people.
And Ammon replied: Sure, I’d like to hang around with this folks for a spell; yep, maybe until my dying day.
Well, King Lamoni was mighty pleased with Ammon, had his bonds cut loose; and he wanted Ammon to take one of his daughters as his bride.
But Ammon said: No thanks, I’d rather be your servant. So, Ammon became a servant to King Lamoni. And it didn't take long before he was among the other servants tendin’ the flocks of Lamoni, just like the custom of the Lamanites.
After three days serving under the king, while he was with the Lamanite hands headin’ to the watering hole called Sebus—where all Lamanites took their flocks for a drink—
As they were goin’ to this water, a gang of Lamanites who’d just watered their own flocks dashed forward and scattered Ammon’s and the king’s sheep, makin’ ‘em bolt every which way.
The king’s servants began to grumble, sayin’: Now the king’s gonna put us to death, just like he did our buddies, ‘cause their flocks are all scattered thanks to these scoundrels. They began to cry, sayin’: Good grief, our flocks are scattered already!
They cried out of fear of bein' killed. But when Ammon saw their distress, joy filled his heart; because he thought, I’ll show these good folks my power, or the power in me, by bringin’ back these flocks to the king, to win their hearts, and lead ‘em to trust in my words.
And that’s what Ammon was thinkin’ when he saw the troubles of those he thought of as brethren.
Ammon started sweet talkin’ ‘em with these words: Brothers, don’t lose heart! Let’s go find the flocks, gather ‘em up, and bring ‘em back to the watering hole; this way we’ll save the flocks for the king, and he won’t turn us into stew.
So off they rode to find the flocks, followin’ Ammon, and they dashed forward super fast, headin’ the king’s sheep back to the water.
Now the rowdy bunch who’d scattered the flocks were back at it; Ammon told his brothers: Surround the flocks real tight so they don’t run off; I’m gonna go have a word with those miscreants scatterin’ our flock.
So they obeyed Ammon, and he stepped up to face those rascals by the waters of Sebus, and there was no shortage of ‘em.
They didn’t fear Ammon, figure one of their own could take him down easy, ‘cause they didn’t know the Lord had promised Mosiah he’d keep his sons safe from their clutches; they didn’t know a thing about the Lord; they reveled in the downfall of their brethren; and that’s why they’d come to scatter the king’s sheep.
But Ammon faced ‘em and started slingin’ stones at ‘em; sure enough, with a whole heap of strength, he sent stones flyin’ their way; and this way, he took down a good number of them, and they started feelin’ mighty surprised by his strength; but they were fumin’ mad about their dead buddies and set on making sure he got it; so, since they couldn’t hit him with rocks, they charged at him with clubs.
But lo and behold, every feller who lifted a club against Ammon found their arms chopped off by his sword; he held ‘em off by swingin’ his blade so fierce that they began to skedaddle; and there was plenty of ‘em makin’ a run for it.
Now six of ‘em hit the dirt because of the sling, but he didn’t take any down except for their leader with his sword; he made sure to chop off as many arms as he could that were lifted against him, and that sure was a bunch.
After sendin’ ‘em on their way, he returned to the flocks, watered them, brought ‘em back to the king’s pasture, and then went to the king, carryin’ the arms he’d chopped off those who’d tried to take him out; they were handed to the king as proof of the wild things that had gone down.
