Well now, it happened that King Lamoni called forth his lads to stand up and share all the happenings they’d laid eyes on 'round the matter.
Once they had all given their accounts about what they’d seen, and the king learned of Ammon keepin’ watch over his livestock real good, as well as Ammon's might in fightin’ off them that aimed to do him harm, he was downright amazed and said: "Well, I’ll be! This here’s gotta be more than just a man. Ain't this the Great Spirit what brings down punishment on these folks for their wrongdoings?”
And the helpin’ hands replied to the king, sayin’: “Now whether he’s the Great Spirit or a plain ol’ man, we ain't sure; but one thing’s for certain, he can’t be taken down by your enemies; and they can’t scatter your flocks while he’s around, ‘cause he's got skills and strength like you wouldn’t believe; so we reckon he’s a loyal friend to you, O king. And I reckon no human’s got such power, ‘cause we know he ain't one to be taken down.”
When the king took in these words, he declared to 'em: “Now I see it clear this must be the Great Spirit; he’s come down now to spare your hides so I don’t end up spillin’ your blood like I did with your kin. This right here’s the Great Spirit our forefathers spoke of.”
Well, now this was somethin’ that Lamoni had heard tell of from his old man—that there’s a Great Spirit. Even though they believed in this Great Spirit, they thought whatever they did was just fine; yet Lamoni started to feel a deep fear, worried he’d gone and made a grave mistake by taking the lives of his servants.
For he had put down many of 'em ‘cause their relatives had scattered the flocks down by the watering hole; and thus, since the herds had been sent a-flyin’, the folks paid for it with their lives.
It was the way of these Lamanites to hang around the waters of Sebus to run off the herds of the good folks, so they could drive off what got loose as part of their thievin’ ways.
So King Lamoni asked his men, “Where’s that fella with all that power?”
They told him, “Well, he’s back there feedin’ your horses. You had asked us before the watering time to get your horses and chariots ready, and take him off to the land of Nephi for a big ol’ feast your father set up, bein’ king of all the territory.”
Now, when King Lamoni caught wind that Ammon was gettin’ his horses and chariots ready, he was even more taken aback, ‘cause he saw how loyal Ammon was, sayin’: “Ain’t nobody among my crew been as faithful as this feller; he even remembers each and every one of my orders and sees ‘em through.”
“I surely reckon this is the Great Spirit, and I want him to swing on by and visit me, but I’m too chicken to ask.”
And it so happened that when Ammon wrapped up tendin’ to the horses and chariots for the king and his men, he stepped back in to see the king’s face lookin’ different; so he thought better and was fixin’ to leave.
But one of the king’s boys called out to him, “Rabbanah,” meanin’ mighty or great king, since they figured their kings were somethin’ special; and he said to him: “Rabbanah, the king wants you to stick around.”
So Ammon turned back to the king and said, “What can I do for you, O king?” But the king didn’t answer him for a spell, not knowin’ how to respond.
Then Ammon piped up again: “What is it you want from me?” But the king still didn’t say a word.
Finally, Ammon, filled with the Spirit of God, could sense what the king was thinkin’. He told him: “Is it ‘cause you’ve heard how I defended your men and your livestock, takin’ down seven of those rascals with my sling and sword, and even cuttin’ off the hands of others to protect what’s yours; is that what’s got you wonderin’?”
“I tell you, what’s with all this amazin’ of yours? I’m just a man, your servant; whatever you want that’s right, I’ll do it.”
When the king heard them words, he was even more amazed, seein’ that Ammon could read him like a book; but even with that, King Lamoni opened his mouth and asked: “Who are you? Are you that Great Spirit, the one who knows everything?”
Ammon replied, “Nope, that ain’t me.”
And the king said, “How on earth do you know what’s goin’ on in my heart? You can speak your mind, and tell me how you went and took care of them who tried to scatter my flocks—”
“And if you spill the beans on these matters, I’ll give you just about anything your heart desires; shoot, if you needed it, I’d even send my armies to back you up; but I’m wise to the fact you’re stronger than all of ‘em; still, whatever you want from me, I’ll see to it.”
Now Ammon, shrewd yet gentle, said to Lamoni: “Will you listen to what I say if I tell you how I got this power?” And this right here’s what I’m askin’ of you.
The king replied, “Sure thing, I’ll believe all your words.” And just like that, Ammon had him all tangled up in his words.
Then Ammon spoke to him boldly, askin’: “Do you believe there’s a God?”
And the king replied, “I don’t rightly know what that means.”
Then Ammon asked: “Do you believe there’s a Great Spirit?”
He answered, “Yep.”
And Ammon said: “Well, that’s God. I’ll ask you again: Do you believe this Great Spirit, which is God, made all things here on earth and in heaven?”
And the king replied, “Sure, I reckon he made all that’s down here; but I ain’t got a clue ‘bout no heavens.”
Ammon said, “Well, heaven's where God lives along with all his holy angels.”
King Lamoni queried, “Is that up above the earth?”
Ammon replied, “Yep, and he looks down on all folks down here; he knows every thought and intention of the heart; for with his own hands, he created ‘em right from the start.”
And King Lamoni said, “I believe all these things you’ve said. Are you sent from God?”
Ammon answered, “I’m just a man; man was first created in the image of God, and I’m called by his Spirit to share these truths with folks, so they might know what’s right and just;
And part of that Spirit lives in me, givin’ me knowledge and power based on my faith and hopes in God.”
After Ammon finished all them words, he started tellin’ about the creation of the world and Adam, layin’ out the story of man's fall, runnin’ through the records and sacred texts from the prophets, all the way back to when their father, Lehi, departed from Jerusalem.
He even went over (and this was for the king and his crew) all the travels of their ancestors in the wild, their hunger and thirst, all the hard times, and more.
And he regaled ‘em with the tales of the rebellions of Laman and Lemuel, and the sons of Ishmael, yes sir, every single one of their misdeeds; and he explained the records and scriptures from the moment Lehi left Jerusalem right up to now.
But that ain’t all; he also laid out the plan for redemption, which was set in place from the foundation of the world; and he made clear to them about the coming of Christ and shared all the works of the Lord.
And it came to pass, after he finished layin’ all that out for the king, the king believed every word he spoke.
Then he cried out to the Lord, sayin’: “Oh Lord, have mercy; considering your great mercy toward the Nephites, show mercy to me and my folks.”
And once he uttered this, he plummeted to the ground, as if he’d kicked the bucket.
His servants scooped him up and carried him to his missus, layin’ him on a bed; and he lay there as if he’d drawn his last breath for two days and two nights, while his wife, his sons, and his daughters wailed somberly over him, mournin’ like true Lamanites, deeply lamentin’ his absence.
