Well now, after a couple days and nights, they was fixin' to take ol’ Ammon's body and bury it in a fancy patch of dirt they had dug for their kinfolk.
Word got round to the queen about Ammon’s mighty deeds, so she sent for him, hopin' he’d ride on over.
Sure enough, Ammon heeded her call, went right in, and asked her what she needed from him.
She replied, "My husband’s folks told me you're a prophet of the Almighty, capable of great feats in His name;"
"If that's true, I'd reckon you should see my husband. He’s been laid up in bed for two long days and nights. Some folks say he’s kicked the bucket, while others argue he’s still hangin' on and should be laid in that grave diggin'. But, to me, he don’t smell bad yet."
Now, Ammon was itchin’ to help, knowin’ that King Lamoni was under God’s mighty influence; the dark cloud of doubt was lifted, and the glorious light of God shone bright in his mind, fillin’ him with joy—ain't no way it was gonna take over his body and spirit, and he felt like he was swept up in the good Lord.
So, whatever the queen wanted was right in line with his heart’s desire. He strolled in to see the king, just like the queen asked, and he knew right off that the king wasn’t dead.
He told the queen, “He ain’t dead, just takin’ a snooze in the Lord, and tomorrow he’ll be up and at ‘em again; so no need to bury him.”
Then Ammon asked her, “Do ya reckon you believe this?” And she said, “Ain't got nobody to back me up but you and our servants’ words; but I reckon what you say is true.”
Ammon replied, “You’re a lucky woman for your strong faith; ain't nobody around the Nephites with faith as great as yours.”
And from then on, she kept a watchful eye on her husband, waitin' for the sunrise that Ammon had promised.
Come dawn, sure enough, the king rose up just like Ammon said; and as he got up, he stretched his hand out to the queen and proclaimed, “Praise be the Lord, and bless you, woman!”
“For as sure as you’re breathin’, I seen my Redeemer; He’s gonna be born of a woman and save every soul that believes in His name.” And as he spoke, his heart swelled with joy, and he went back down, filled with happiness; and the queen also felt overwhelmed by the Spirit.
Now Ammon, seein’ the Spirit flowin’ over the Lamanites, his kin who'd caused plenty of grief for the Nephites and God’s people 'cause of their wrong ways and old habits, he dropped down on his knees to offer a heartfelt prayer and thanks for what the Lord done for his family; he was bursting with joy, and all three of ‘em fell flat on the ground.
When the king's folks saw they’d dropped, they started callin’ to God too, ‘cause fear of the Lord gripped ‘em, bein' the ones who stood before the king and bragged about Ammon’s power.
Next thing you know, they were hollerin’ out for the Lord with all their might, till one of ‘em—a Lamanite gal named Abish, who’d been a believer for years after a wild vision of her Pops—didn't fall but ran around spreading the news, thinkin' this sight’d get folks to believe in God’s power.
So folks started gatherin’ at the king's house. A whole bunch showed up, and they were shocked to see the king, the queen, and their crew all flat on the ground, lookin’ like they’d passed on; and they noticed Ammon there, and sure as shootin’, he was a Nephite.
Now the crowd started murmur’n amongst themselves; some figured it was a curse on them ‘cause the king let that Nephite stick around.
But others gave ‘em a piece of their mind, sayin’ it was the king’s own doing for killin’ his servants who lost their sheep over at Sebus.
And them fellas who’d been at the waters of Sebus, scatterin’ the king's flocks, was mad at Ammon for knockin' off so many of their brothers while protectin’ the king's sheep.
Well, one fella, whose brother Ammon had slain, was red-hot angry and pulled his sword, lookin’ to settle the score with Ammon; but as he swung to strike him down, the poor soul dropped dead.
So it’s plain as day that Ammon couldn’t be taken down, ‘cause the Lord had told his father, Mosiah: “I’ll protect him, according to your faith”—and Mosiah put his trust in the Good Lord.
When the crowd saw the fella hit the dirt who tried to kill Ammon, fear washed over them, and they didn’t have the guts to touch him or any of the others layin’ there; they started wonderin’ what the heck this great power was all about.
Some were sayin’ Ammon was the Great Spirit himself, while others thought he’d been sent by the Great Spirit.
But then others was quick to knock those thoughts down, claiming he was a monster sent by the Nephites to make their lives tough.
Some also jabbered that Ammon was sent to punish them for their bad ways; and that this Great Spirit was always lookin’ out for the Nephites, rescuin’ ‘em time and time again; they even said it was this Great Spirit that taken out so many Lamanites.
And so the arguing got pretty heated. While all this was goin’ on, Abish—who had gathered the crowd—came along and saw the conflict and felt real sorrow, bringin’ tears to her eyes.
She went and grabbed the queen’s hand, hopin’ to lift her up off the ground; as soon as she touched her, the queen jumped up and started shoutin’ with all her might: “Oh, blessed Jesus, who saved me from the fiery pit! Oh, blessed God, have mercy on these folks!”
Once she finished that, she clasped her hands, filled with happiness, spillin’ forth words that nobody understood; when she was done, she reached for King Lamoni’s hand, and he got up on his feet too.
He took a look around at the ruckus among his people, stepped up, and started scoldin’ ‘em, teachin’ ‘em the words he heard from Ammon; and those that listened believed and changed their ways.
But plenty of folks wouldn’t give his words a second thought, so they wandered off.
So, Ammon got back up and started talkin’ to the crowd, just like the king’s folks did too; and they all shouted to the people that their hearts had been turned around; they didn’t want to do bad stuff no more.
And lo and behold, many told the crowd they’d seen angels and had a good ol’ chat with ‘em; and they laid out what the Lord had shared, and how He wanted ‘em to live right.
Next thing, lots of folks started puttin’ their faith in their words; as many as believed got dipped in the waters and became a right-livin’ folk, kickin’ off a church right there among ‘em.
So the Lord’s work began with the Lamanites; the good Lord started spreadin’ His Spirit among them; and we see that His arm is stretched out for anyone lookin’ to repent and believe in His name.
