A tale 'bout the preachin' of Aaron, Muloki, and their bunch, to them Lamanites.
Coverin' chapters right through 25.
Now when Ammon and his cowpokes split off on the fringes of Lamanite territory, reckon Aaron headed out toward a place the Lamanites called Jerusalem, givin' it a name after where their folks hailed from; and it was sittin' snug against the borders of Mormon.
Well, those Lamanites and the Amalekites and the folks from Amulon built themselves a mighty big city, named it Jerusalem.
Now the Lamanites were pretty tough to crack, but them Amalekites and Amulonites were even tougher; so they led the Lamanites to harden their hearts and get strong in all sorts of mischief and wickedness.
And it so happened that Aaron rolled into Jerusalem and got right to preachin' to the Amalekites. He started speakin' in their synagogues, 'cause they built 'em all in the style of them Nehors; a right good number of the Amalekites and Amulonites had a hankerin' for that way of doin' things.
So, as Aaron stepped into one of their synagogues to preach, a fella stood up and started jawin' back at him, sayin': "What in tarnation are ya claimin'? You seen an angel? Why ain't we gettin' no angels droppin' by? Ain't our folks just as good as yours?"
"You also sayin' that if we don’t shape up, we're bound for trouble. How do you reckon you know what's goin' on in our hearts? How do you know we ain't righteous? We built us some nice places to worship, and we get together to honor God. We figure God’s gonna save everybody."
Then Aaron fired back: "You reckon the Son of God’s comin' to haul folks outta their sins?"
The man answered: "We don’t buy what you’re sellin’. We don’t hold with no foolish traditions. Ain't nobody needs to tell us about the future; our folks know just as much as yours do."
Aaron opened the good book to show 'em about Christ comin', the resurrection, and how there ain't no way to be saved without Christ's death and sufferin', and the atonement from his blood.
As he started layin' this all out, they got riled up and began makin' fun of him; wouldn’t lend an ear to his words.
So when he figured they weren’t listenin’, he packed his bags and headed on over to a place called Ani-Anti, where he found Muloki preachin' the good news; also, Ammah and his crew were there mixin' it up with the locals.
And it happened that they saw folks hardenin' their hearts, so they skedaddled over into Middoni. They preached a good word to many, but not many believed what they were layin' down.
Still, Aaron and a few of his pals got picked up and tossed into the slammer, while the rest of 'em made a run for the hills, outta Middoni to surrounding areas.
Them who were thrown in the pokey endured a heap of trouble, but they got sprung by Lamoni and Ammon, and they were fed and clothed.
They headed back out again to share the good word, and thus they got outta jail for the first time; they'd sure been through a lot.
They roamed wherever the Spirit swung 'em, preachin' the word of God in every Amalekite synagogue or any assembly of Lamanites that would let 'em in.
And it happened that the Lord began to bless 'em, gatherin' in many folks to the truth; yessiree, they managed to convince quite a few about their sins and the old ways of their kin, which just didn't hold water.
Then it came to pass, Ammon and Lamoni made their way back from Middoni to the land of Ishmael, which was the land they’d inherited.
And ol' king Lamoni wouldn’t let Ammon take up servitude or be his lackey.
But he sure got them folks to build synagogues in the land of Ishmael; and he directed his people, the ones under his thumb, to gather together.
He took joy in 'em, taught 'em plenty of things. Also let 'em know they were his people, free folks, free from the heavy hand of the king, his daddy; granted to him the right to reign over folks in the land of Ishmael and all the land 'round.
He also told 'em they could worship their God however they wanted, wherever they found themselves, as long as they were in King Lamoni's domain.
So Ammon went and preached to Lamoni's folks; and lo and behold, they learned all about what it meant to be righteous. He gave 'em a nudge every day, workin' hard, and they paid close attention to his words, gettin' fired up about keepin' God's commandments.
