Well now, while Ammon was teachin' them folks in Lamoni day in and day out, let’s turn back to Aaron and his gang; after he took off from Middoni, the Spirit led him straight to Nephi, right to the king's place that ruled over the whole region, 'cept for Ishmael's land—he's the old man's pop.
So Aaron sauntered into the king’s fancy digs with his buddies, tipped his hat, and spoke up: “Howdy there, your Majesty, we’re kin to Ammon, that fella you pulled outta the clink.”
And then he added, “Now, if you’ll show us a mercy, we’d be mighty grateful to serve ya." The king replied, “Get up, I’ll spare your hides, but I ain’t gonna have you servin' me; I’d prefer you help me out instead, seein' as Ammon's mighty words have been stirrin’ my thoughts, and I’m keen on knowin' why he didn’t come back from Middoni with you.”
Aaron explained to the king, “Well now, the Spirit sent him somewhere else; he’s off to Ishmael’s territory to teach Lamoni's folks.”
The king scratched his head and said, “What in tarnation are you talkin’ 'bout, this Spirit of the Lord? It’s been weighin’ heavy on my mind.”
“Also, what’s this Ammon said? He claimed if folks repent, they’ll be saved, but if not, they’ll be cast off at the end of days?”
Aaron answered, “Do you reckon there’s a God?” And the king replied, “I reckon those Amalekites believe in a God, and I let 'em build places to worship. If you say there’s a God, well then I’m listenin’.”
When Aaron heard this, he felt a swell of joy and said, “Just as sure as you’re breathin’, O king, there is indeed a God.”
The king inquired, “Is that Great Spirit the one who led our folks outta Jerusalem?”
Aaron nodded and said, “Yep, that’s Him. He’s the one who created everything up in the heavens and down here on Earth. You believe that?”
The king answered, “Sure do! I reckon that Great Spirit created it all. Now, tell me more about these matters, and I’ll take to heart what you say.”
So, Aaron took the chance and started from the beginning, tellin' the king about how God made man in His image, laid down the rules, and how man fell from grace due to his missteps.
Aaron laid out the good book's stories, explainin' how Adam’s folly led to their carnal plight and shared about the plan of redemption crafted since the get-go, through Christ, for whoever believes on His name.
Since folks had fallen, they couldn’t earn their way back; only the suffering and death of Christ could make things right again, through faith and repentin', and that He'd break the chains of death so that the grave wouldn’t have the last laugh, swallowin' the sting of death in the sweet hope of glory. Aaron laid all this before the king.
Once Aaron finished speakin', the king asked, “What must I do to snag that eternal life you talked about? How do I rid myself of this wickedness and get the Spirit inside me, so I can be filled with joy and not get cast off at the end? I’d throw away everything I’ve got, even my kingdom, just to grab hold of that joy.”
But Aaron said, “If that’s what you want, you gotta hit the ground before God, repent of your sins, and call on His name with faith, reckonin’ that you’ll receive. Then you'll find the hope you’re lookin’ for.”
And sure enough, when Aaron finished his words, the king straightened up and hit his knees, even floppin’ down on the ground, cryin' out big time:
“O God, Aaron told me there’s a God; if you’re real, will you show yourself to me? I’ll give up all my wrongs just to know you, and to rise again from the dead, so I can be saved in the end.” And right after sayin’ that, the king went limp like a sack of potatoes.
Next thing you know, his servants rushed to tell the queen about what went down with the king. She hurried in, saw him as still as a rock, and noticed Aaron and his mates lookin' guilty. So, she got mad and ordered her workers to drag 'em off and do 'em in.
But the servants, havin’ seen what made the king fall, didn’t dare put a hand on Aaron and his crew. They pleaded with the queen, “Why are you wantin' us to take out these men when one of ‘em is stronger than all of us combined? We’ll just end up on our knees before 'em.”
When the queen saw her servants lookin’ skittish, fear settled in on her too, worryin' about what trouble might come her way. She hollered for her servants to gather the folks so they could take care of Aaron and his pals.
But Aaron, he felt the heat of the queen's anger and knew how stubborn the folks could be, so he worried a crowd might gather, turnin’ into a ruckus. He reached out, brought the king back to his feet, and told him, “Stand up.” And the king did, gainin' his strength back.
This right here happened right in front of the queen and a good number of her helpers. When they saw the king back on his feet, their jaws dropped in awe, and they started to get a touch scared. The king then began to help 'em out, lendin' a hand in such a way that his whole household turned their hearts to the Lord.
Now, a big ol’ crowd gathered ‘cause of the queen's command, and soon there was some serious grumbling among 'em about Aaron and his company.
But the king stepped up and soothed the folks, helpin’ 'em see the light about Aaron and his buddies.
Once he saw that the crowd was calmin' down, the king had Aaron and his brethren stand tall in the middle, preachin’ the good word to ‘em.
Then, he sent a shout-out across all his land, to all his people, from the east to the west, and everywhere in between, even along the shores, with the narrow stretch of wilderness that separated Zarahemla from the sea—so on and so forth—dividin' the Lamanites from the Nephites.
The lazier Lamanites set up their camps in the wild, livin' in tents along the western edges of Nephi and Zarahemla, right 'long the shore where their families first made home.
And there were a heap of Lamanites hangin’ out on the eastern shores, where the Nephites had driven 'em out. So, the Nephites found themselves nearly encircled by Lamanites; yet they’d taken claim of all the northern stretches along the wilderness at the river Sidon’s head, from east to west.
And that patch of land they called Desolation was so far north it led to a spot once populated, long gone, and filled with bones, discovered by the folks of Zarahemla, the place where they first landed.
From there, they trekked down into the southern wilderness. So, the northern lands were known as Desolation, and the southern lands were tagged Bountiful, filled with wild critters galore, some of which had wandered south for a feast.
And it was just a day and a half's travel for a Nephite from Bountiful to Desolation, crossin' from the east sea to the west; so the lands of Nephi and Zarahemla were nearly boxed in by water, with just a narrow stretch of land linkin' north and south.
The Nephites make camp in Bountiful, all the way from east to west sea, and with their wisdom, guards, and armies, they boxed in the Lamanites down south, so they wouldn’t take claim up north and overrun ‘em.
Thus, the Lamanites couldn’t claim much more than the land of Nephi and the wilderness around it. This was wise thinkin’ on the Nephites' part—given the Lamanites were a hostile bunch, they wouldn’t take the beatin' on all sides, lookin’ for a place to hightail it to.
Now, after all that, I'm swingin’ back ‘round to Ammon, Aaron, Omner, Himni, and the rest of their crew, where the tale continues.
