Well now, the king of the Lamanites decided to send out a message to all his folks, lettin' ‘em know not to lay a hand on Ammon, Aaron, Omner, Himni, or any of their kin that was out preachin’ the good word of God, no matter where they roamed in their neck of the woods.
He sure did send a order out, sayin' they shouldn’t tie ‘em up or toss ‘em in the slammer; they weren’t to spit on ‘em, punch ‘em, throw ‘em outta their meeting houses, or give ‘em a lickin’; they weren’t even to hurl stones at ‘em, but oughta let ‘em stroll freely to their homes, temples, and sanctuaries.
This way, they could gallop out and preach how they pleased, ‘cause the king had seen the light and so had his whole family; that’s why he sent the word far and wide across the land, so the good word of God wouldn’t hit any snags, but could ride out to every corner of the territory, helpin' folks see the error of their old ways, and realize they were all kinfolk, who ought not go around killin’, robbin’, stealin’, cheating, or doin’ any other kind of wrong.
Well, once the king sent out that proclamation, Aaron and his brothers saddled up and rode from town to town, poppin' in at one church after another, settin' up congregations and ordainin' priests and teachers among the Lamanites, preachin' and spreadin' the good word all over the place, and them fellas started gettin' mighty successful.
Thousands started learnin’ ‘bout the Lord, and yes sir, thousands came to believe in the Nephite ways; they were schooled in the old records and prophecies that’d been passed on even to the here and now.
And as sure as the sun rises, all them folks who believed or came to understand the truth through the preachin’ of Ammon and his pals, ‘long with the spirit of revelation and prophecy, and the mighty hand of God doin’ miracles among ‘em—yep, I tell ya, as long as the Lord’s breathin’, all them Lamanites that believed in their preachin’ and turned towards the Lord, never strayed from the path.
They turned into a righteous bunch; they tossed aside their weapons of rebellion, and they stopped fighting against God or any of their kin.
Now these folks who turned to the Lord were:
The Lamanites livin’ in the land of Ishmael;
And also them who were settlin' in the land of Middoni;
And them who called the city of Nephi home;
And those who were in the land of Shilom, and in the land of Shemlon, and in the city of Lemuel, and in the city of Shimnilom.
These here are the towns of the Lamanites that found faith in the Lord; they laid down their arms of rebellion, yep, all their war gear; and they were all still Lamanites.
The Amalekites weren’t turned 'round, ‘cept for one lone cowboy; and none of the Amulonites were either; they hardened their hearts, steerin’ the hearts of the Lamanites in their corner of the territory, and that went for all their little hamlets and towns too.
So we done named all the Lamanite towns where folks repented and got wise to the truth, and turned their lives ‘round.
Now the king and those who’d found the light was keen on havin' themselves a proper name, so folks could tell ‘em apart from their kin; therefore, the king had a sit down with Aaron and some of their priests to figure out what name would suit ‘em best.
It turned out they liked the name Anti-Nephi-Lehies; and they took on that name, never lookin' back to being called Lamanites.
Then they rolled up their sleeves and became a hardworking bunch; yeah, and they got chummy with the Nephites too, so they started sendin’ messages back and forth, and the shadow of God’s curse no longer followed ‘em.
