Well now, listen up: the folks from Laman and their cohorts—Amalekites and Amulonites—were gettin' riled up against the good folks who’d taken to blessin' the name of Anti-Nephi-Lehi, stirrin’ the pot all 'round the land of Amulon and Helam and even up in Jerusalem.
Their anger against their kinfolk simmered hotter than a brandin’ iron left in the fire, so much so that they stopped listenin’ to their king and took up arms against the faithful Anti-Nephi-Lehies.
Now the king passed on the crown to his boy and named him Anti-Nephi-Lehi, keepin' it in the family, just like they do with prized horses.
That very year the Lamanites were gearin' up for a showdown against the folks of God, the king breathed his last breath.
When Ammon and his pals saw the Lamanites gettin’ ready to wreak havoc on their kin, they hightailed it to Midian to gather all the boys; from there they rode to the land of Ishmael to hold a powwow with Lamoni and Anti-Nephi-Lehi ‘bout how to stand their ground.
Now, there wasn’t a single soul among those who’d found grace in the Lord who'd take up arms against their kin; no sir, they didn’t even think ‘bout war, and their king told ‘em same.
He spoke to his tribe about it, sayin' he was mighty grateful to the Lord for sendin' those Nephite brothers to open their eyes ‘bout the ugly ways handed down from their wicked forefathers.
And, bless his heart, he was also thankful that the Almighty had softened their hearts just enough to strike up a friendship with the Nephites.
He expressed gratitude that this friendship had shined a light on their sins, the blood they had on their hands.
And he gave thanks, too, for the chance to switch gears and repentin’ from their past misdeeds, findin' forgiveness in their hearts from the one true Son.
Now listen here, brothers, since it took every ounce of our bein' to get God to wipe our slate clean, it was high time we took a stand ‘gainst spillin’ any more blood.
Well now, my dear brothers, since the Good Lord’s cleaned us up, let’s keep our swords shiny and not dip 'em in blood ever again.
I tell ya, let’s keep our swords clean as a whistle; ‘cause if we happen to stain ‘em again, they might never shine bright again through the blood of our mighty Savior.
The Great God has spared us, and made sure we didn’t go down without knowin’ the score; He did this ‘cause He loves us just as much as He loves our little ones, sendin' His angels to share the good news about salvation with us and them that come after.
Oh, how merciful is our God! And now, since all we could muster up was to keep our swords sharp, let’s hide 'em away—keep 'em polished like a badge come Judgment Day, when we stand testament to Him, sayin’ we never spilled our brothers' blood since He washed us pure.
If our kinfolk try to take us out, we'll be buryin' our swords deep in the earth, promising ‘em we won’t rust ‘em up, and if they do us in, we’ll be headin’ home to our God, safe and sound.
When the king wrapped up his speech, all the good folks gathered ‘round, and they buried their swords and all weapons made for spillin’ blood deep in the ground.
This act was a testament to both the Almighty and mankind—they swore they’d never raise steel against their own kin when push came to shove, preferin’ to give up their own lives instead; they’d rather help a brother out than mope about in idleness, workin’ mighty hard instead.
And so it was that, once these Lamanites learned the truth, they stood firm, preferrin’ death over livin’ in sin; in the name of peace, they buried their weapons of war.
Well, as things went, those Lamanites were comin’ for a fight and rode on up to Nephi, lookin’ to take out the king and toss the Anti-Nephi-Lehies right outta their territory.
When they saw the enemy a-comin’, the folks went out to greet ’em, layin’ on the ground to pray to the Lord; they were still prayin' up a storm when the Lamanites charged, swords swing’n all around.
Yup, without so much as a peep of resistance, they took out a thousand and five folks, but we know they’ve punched their ticket to heaven.
When the Lamanites saw their kin wouldn’t budge an inch, would lie down instead of skedaddle, and praised God even as they faced death—
Well, those Lamanites couldn’t bring themselves to finish the job; their hearts heaved for their fallen brothers, and they had regrets ‘bout the blood on their hands.
So, they tossed down their weapons of war, vowing not to take 'em back up, bitten by guilt for all that bloodshed they’d caused, just like their brethren, leanin’ on the mercy given by those who could’ve ended them.
And it came to pass that that day the people of God found new brothers joinin' their ranks, more than those lost in the fray; and 'cause those who'd fallen were righteous, we reckon they found salvation.
No wicked soul was left among them; but a thousand more learned the truth, showin’ us the Lord works in mysterious ways to save His people.
Most of the Lamanites who did the killin’ were Amalekites and Amulonites, mostly those who followed the rogue ways of Nehor.
As for the folks who joined up with God’s people, they weren’t Amalekites or Amulonites, nor from the order of Nehor; they were straight-up descendants of Laman and Lemuel.
And so it’s clear as day, once folks have been enlightened by God’s Spirit and tasted the fruits of righteousness, if they turn back to sin, they harden their hearts, findin’ themselves in worse shape than if they’d never known the truth at all.
