Well now, listen here, those Lamanites were more riled up than a rattlesnake in a rabbit hole ‘cause they'd gone and taken the lives of their own kin. So they swore they'd have their revenge on them Nephites, but they weren't fixin' to mess with the folks of Anti-Nephi-Lehi at that moment.
Instead, they rounded up their troops and headed over to the borders of Zarahemla, where they stumbled upon the good folks in Ammonihah and laid waste to them.
After that dust-up, they found themselves in a heap of battles with the Nephites, where they got pushed back and taken down.
And among those Lamanites who bit the bullet were nearly all the kin of Amulon and his pals, those priests of Noah, who met their end at the hands of the Nephites.
The rest of ‘em hightailed it into the eastern wilderness, usurpin' power and authority over the Lamanites and causing many to burn up ‘cause of their beliefs—
See, a good number of ‘em, after takin' a rough go and sufferin’ through mighty pain, started rememberin’ the words that Aaron and his crew had preached back in their neck of the woods; they began to question the traditions handed down and put their believein’ in the Lord, trustin’ that He had given some serious strength to the Nephites, thus many got converted out in that wild.
Well, it turned out them rulers who were leftovers from Amulon’s gaggle decided they’d execute all them who believed these new-fangled ideas.
Now that there martyrdom sure got a rise outta many of their fellow kin; it was like a hornet's nest stirred up in that wilderness, makin’ the Lamanites start huntin’ down those kin of Amulon and pickin’ ‘em off, while the folks scurried into the eastern wilderness.
And sure as shootin', they’re still bein’ hunted by the Lamanites today. Thus, what Abinadi had said about them priests’ descendants was brought to fruition, the part where he mentioned how they’d make him suffer that fiery fate.
For he warned them, “What y’all do to me is just a peek at what’s comin’ next.”
And now, Abinadi was the first to meet his end by fire due to his devotion to God; and when he said many would follow suit, he meant just that.
He also told the priests of Noah their kin would end up causin’ the deaths of many just like he did, scatterin’ ‘em like sheep without a shepherd, hunted down and slayed by wild beasts; and lo and behold, his words rang true, for they were chased by the Lamanites, faced the fire, and got hit hard.
And it came to be that once them Lamanites figured they couldn’t overpower the Nephites, they packed their bags and headed back to their own territory; a fair number drifted over to the lands of Ishmael and Nephi, hitchin' their wagons to the folks of God—those good ol' Anti-Nephi-Lehi people.
They even buried their weapons of war, just like their brothers did, and started livin’ right, walkin’ in the ways of the Lord, keepin' to His commandments and statutes.
Yessiree, they held fast to the law of Moses, ‘cause it was still on the books for 'em, not all fulfilled yet. But even so, they was lookin’ to the arrival of Christ, reckonin’ that the law of Moses was just a preview of his comin’, and they were certain they had to keep up those outward customs ‘til he showed up.
Now, they didn’t think that salvation sprang from the law of Moses, but that law sure did help bolster their faith in Christ; thus, they held tight to a glimmer of hope through faith, aim’n for eternal salvation, leanin’ on that spirit of prophecy which spoke of what’s to come.
And now behold, Ammon, Aaron, Omner, Himni, and their kin were feelin’ as happy as a lark, ‘cause of how they’d struck gold with the Lamanites, seein’ the Lord had answered their prayers right down to the letter, and had also backed up His word to ‘em at every turn.
