Well now, gather 'round, folks, 'cause Ammon's got some words for his kinfolk, and it goes like this: My brothers and my pals, let me tell ya, we sure have a heap of reasons to be happier than a lark; could we ever imagine when we rode outta Zarahemla, that the Good Lord would shower us with such mighty blessings?
Now, I'm askin', what kinda great blessings has He handed us? Can ya shed some light?
Well, let me answer that for ya; our brothers, the Lamanites, were lost in the shadows, wallowing in a pit darker than a midnight prairie, but looky here, how many of 'em are now basking in the bright light of God! And this is the great blessing we received—that we've become tools in the Lord's hands to whip up this here mighty work.
Ain't it somethin'? Thousands of 'em are rejoicin’ and have joined the fold of the Good Lord.
Look yonder, the crop was primed for the pickin', and bless your boots, you folks didn't hesitate to swing the sickle and worked your tails off, from sunup to sundown; just look at the bounty you gathered! They're all gonna be safe and sound, stored away, 'cause we ain't lettin' 'em go to waste.
You betcha, they ain't gonna take a beating from the storm come judgment day; nope, they won’t get tossed and turned by the winds of trouble; when the storms roll in, they'll be gathered up so tight, no tempest'll get to 'em; ain't no fierce gales gonna drag 'em off wherever the enemy pleases.
But don’t you worry, they’re in the hands of the Lord of the harvest, and they belong to Him; He'll raise 'em up when the last day rolls around.
Blessed be the name of our God; let’s break out in song for His glory, let’s give thanks to His holy name, 'cause He’s been dishing out righteousness forevermore.
If we hadn’t saddled up and left Zarahemla, our dearly beloved folks who think the world of us would've still been gnashin’ their teeth in hatred against us, and they'd be as far from God as a tumbleweed in a dust storm.
And right after Ammon spat those thoughts out, his brother Aaron stepped in, sayin': "Ammon, I reckon your joy's takin’ you a mite too far into braggin'."
But Ammon shot back: "I ain't boastin' 'bout my own strength or smarts; no sir, my heart's overflowing with joy, and I’m fixin' to celebrate my God."
Sure as shootin', I know I'm nothin'; when it comes to strength, I’m weaker than a newborn calf; so I ain’t blowin' my own horn, but I’ll toot the horn for my God, 'cause in His might, I can do just about anything; looky here, we’ve pulled off many a mighty miracle in this territory, and we’ll be singin’ His praises for all eternity.
Ain't it somethin' how many thousands of our kin He’s freed from the grips of hell; and now they’re singin’ songs of His redeeming love, all 'cause of the power of His word workin' through us—ain't that a reason to rejoice?
You betcha, we’ve got plenty of cause to celebrate Him for eternity, for He’s the Most High God, and He’s set our people free from those chains of hell.
Sure, they were trapped in a dark and dangerous world; but look at that—He’s brought 'em into His everlasting light, into salvation that never ends; they’re wrapped up in the unmatched generosity of His love; and we’ve been lucky to be instruments in His hands to pull off this great and wondrous task.
So let's take pride, yes sir, we’ll take pride in the Lord; we will rejoice, for our joy is as big as the open plains; we’ll praise our God forever. Who can ever take too much pride in the Lord? Who can ever say too much about His grand power, His mercy, and His endless patience with folks like us? I tell you, I can’t even scratch the surface of what I feel.
Who’d ever think our God would be so merciful to haul us outta our mess of a sinful and tainted life?
Look here, we sure set out in fury, swingin' our big sticks to take down His church.
So I ask you, why didn’t He send us straight to a terrible fate, why didn’t He let His sword of justice fall on us and seal our doom for eternity?
Oh my heart, it nearly falls apart at the thought. Yet He didn’t bring His justice down on us, but instead, in His grand mercy, He helped us cross that everlasting gulf of death and misery, leadin’ us right to the salvation of our souls.
Now, I ask you, what natural man out there knows all these things? I tell you true, there ain't none knowin' these things unless they're penitent.
Yes sir, the one who repents, who puts faith to work, who brings forth good deeds, and prays night and day—those folks are the ones who get to know the secrets of God; to them it'll be revealed stuff that's never been seen before; they’ll be the ones to lead thousands to repentance, just like we've been able to do for our kinfolk.
Now do you remember when we told our brethren back in Zarahemla that we were headin' to Nephi to preach to our fellow Lamanites, and they just laughed at us?
They said to us: "Do you reckon you can convince the Lamanites of the truth? You think you can change their granddad's ways, as stubborn as they are; folks who'd just as soon shed blood as drink water; who’ve been lost in sin since day one? Now, brothers, you recall that was their talk."
And on top of that, they hollered: "Let’s take up arms and stomp 'em out, rid the land of their wickedness before they take over and wipe us out."
But I tell ya, my dear friends, we didn’t wander into the wild with a mind to annihilate our brothers; no sir, we came lookin’ to save a few souls along the way.
Now when our hearts were feelin' mighty low and we thought about turnin' back, the Lord gave us a boost, sayin': "Go among your Lamanite kin, bear your troubles with patience, and I'll grant you success."
And sure enough, we went into their midst; we were patient through our hardships and suffered all sorts of privations; yes, we traveled from house to house, leanin’ on the world’s kindness—not just the world’s kindness, but also the kindness of God.
We entered their homes, taught 'em right there; in their streets and on their hills; we even hit up their temples and synagogues; we were tossed out, mocked, spat on, slapped upside the face; we were stoned, tied up good with strong rope, and tossed in the slammer; and through the power and wisdom of God, we were freed once more.
We faced all sorts of hardships, all this, hopin’ we might just save a soul or two; we thought our joy would be full if we could save some.
Now look here, we can see the fruits of our labors spread out like a fine spread of grub; and are there few? I tell you, Nope, they’re as numerous as a herd of cattle; yes, we can see their sincerity, thanks to their love for their kin and us too.
‘Cause they’d rather lay down their lives than take out their enemy; they’ve buried their weapons deep in the ground, all 'cause of their love for their kin.
Now I ask you, is there any kinda love like that anywhere on this land? I say, no sir, ain’t none among the Nephites.
‘Cause see, they'd pick up arms against their own, wouldn't let themselves be taken down. But look at how many of these have laid down their lives for their love and their hatred for sin.
Ain’t we got reason to be glad? I tell you, ain't no folks had a bigger reason to rejoice than we have since the world turned its first breath; my joy is so full, it spills over into braggin' on my God; 'cause He’s got all the power, all the smarts, and all the know-how; He understands everything, and He’s a loving Being, bringing salvation to all who’ll repent and believe in His name.
Now if this is bragging, then so be it; 'cause this here is my life, my light, my joy, my salvation, my redemption from endless woe. Blessed be the name of my God, who’s kept His eye on this folks, who’ve been scattered like leaves off a tree, lost in a foreign land; blessed be the name of my God for watchin’ over us wanderers in this strange stretch of earth.
Now, my kin, we see God’s watchful eye over every people, no matter where they roam; He numbers His folks and His heart of mercy extends over all the land. That's my joy and my grand thanksgiving; forever and ever, I’ll give thanks to my God. Amen.
