Well now, let me spin ya a yarn 'bout how it all went down after them Ammon folks settled in the land called Jershon, and after they kicked them Lamanites right off their land, puttin' 'em six feet under—
Now they didn't bother countin' them dead folks 'cause there was just too darn many; the same went for them Nephite dead—after they buried their own, and after days of mournin' and prayin', (and this was in the sixteenth year of the judges roamin’ 'round Nephi's folks) peace started settlin’ in like a gentle breeze blowin' ‘cross the plains.
Yep, folks started makin' sure to follow the Good Lord's commandments; they weren’t too loose with the God’s rules, stickin' to Moses’ laws like a hungry cowpoke to a full plate—‘cause they knew they were supposed to follow ‘em straight until they were all wrapped up.
So there wasn't a peep of trouble during the whole dang sixteenth year of the judges' reign over Nephi’s kin.
And as luck would have it, come the start of the seventeenth year, peace stayed put like it was tied down tight.
But come the end of that seventeenth year, a feller strolled into Zarahemla, and he was a real Anti-Christ, startin' to preach against them prophecies folks been yappin' about, sayin' that Christ was fixin' to show up.
Now they didn't have no law against how a man believed; it was well understood that it was downright against the Good Lord’s orders to make folks uneven in their beliefs.
Like the good book says: Make your choice today 'bout who you’ll serve.
If a man wanted to serve God, why, that was his right; if he believed in the Almighty, he had every right to serve Him; but if he didn’t believe, well, there wasn’t no law to rope him in.
Now if a man went and killed, he’d face hangin’; if he rustled cattle, he’d get a rope too; if he laid his hands on another man's wife, he’d answer to that as well—yup, all that wickedness had its price.
There was a law that called for judgment based on what folks did wrong. But there wasn’t no law against how a man believed; so a feller only got what he deserved for his wrongdoins; which meant all men were on equal footing.
And that Anti-Christ feller, named Korihor, (and mind ya, the law couldn’t touch him) started preachin' that there ain't no Christ. And doggone it, he said it like this:
"Hey you poor souls shackled by foolish hope, why're y’all hitchin' your wagons to such nonsense? Why're ya lookin' for a Christ? Ain't no man can know what’s comin’ next."
"Look here, them prophecies y’all jabber about, handed down by holy men? They’s just silly old stories from your daddies."
"How can y’all be sure? You can’t know what ain’t right in front of ya, so ye can’t know there’s a Christ comin'."
"You look ahead and say you see your sins bein' washed away. But hold on, that’s just a jumbled-up mind at work; this mess is all 'cause of your pappy’s traditions, leadin' ya away from what ain’t true."
"And he spun 'em more tales, sayin' that there ain't no atonement for folks’ sins, that every man just gets what he wrangles outta life; everyone’s got their share based on their own smarts, and every man wins ‘cause of his grit; whatever a man does ain’t no crime."
"And that’s how he preached at ‘em, leadin' many astray, makin' ‘em hold their heads high in their wrongdoing, yes sir, leadin’ men and women alike into all sorts of sinful shenanigans—tellin' ‘em that when a man dies, well, that’s the end of the trail."
That rascal even made his way over to Jershon to spin his yarns to the Ammon folks, who once were Lamanites.
But they were smarter than many Nephites; they took him captive, tied him up good, and marched him before Ammon, who was the high priest of those folks.
And it happened that they made sure he didn’t stick around long; he hightailed it over to the land of Gideon, yappin' his nonsense, but he found not much reception there, either, as he was soon caught, bound, and dragged before the high priest and the chief judge.
Now the high priest asked him: "Why're ya goin' around twisted up in the Lord’s way? Why're ya teachin' folks that there's no Christ to spoil their good times? Why're ya shootin’ down the holy prophecies?"
That high priest was named Giddonah. And Korihor answered, "It’s ‘cause I'm not preachin’ the silly traditions of your fathers, and I ain't teachin' this crowd to tie themselves down to the foolish rules laid down by ancient priests, just tryna grab power and keep ‘em in the dark, so they can’t look up but get brought down by your words."
"You claim this crowd’s free as birds. Well, I say they're just shackled. You reckon them old prophecies are true? Well, I’ll tell ya, you don’t know if they are."
"You say this crowd's guilty and fallen 'cause of their folks’ mess-ups. But I say a child ain’t guilty 'cause of their parents."
"And you also say that Christ’s on his way. But I say you ain’t certain there’s a Christ comin’. And you insist he’ll be put to death for the world's sins—"
"Yet you lead this crowd after the silly old tales of your daddies, just for your own gain; you keep ‘em bent down low, so you can feast off their hard work, and they don’t dare look up with any swagger, nor claim their rights and freedoms."
"Yep, they don’t dare use what’s rightfully theirs for fear they might tick off the priests, who press ‘em down under their own desires, and have ‘em believe through their fancy stories, dreams, wishes, visions, and fake mysteries that they’d tick off some unseen being they call God—a being that ain’t ever been seen or known, who never was nor ever will be."
When the high priest and the chief judge saw that hard heart of his, and saw he’d revile even God, they wouldn’t give him any more talk; they just made sure to tie him up good and proper; they handed him over to the officers, sendin' him off to Zarahemla, where he’d stand before Alma and the chief judge who ran the show.
And it happened that when he was brought before Alma and the chief judge, he carried on like he did in Gideon; oh yes, he just reviled.
He stood up, flappin’ his gums like there was no tomorrow before Alma, makin’ accusations against priests and teachers, sayin' they led folks after the silly tales of their forefathers just ‘cause they wanted to stuff their bellies.
Alma set him straight: "You know good and well we don’t plunder these folks’ hard work; I’ve toiled from day one of the judges' reign, using my own two hands for my keep, even with all my travels to spread the word of God to my kin."
"Despite all the hard work in the church, I ain't taken so much as a dime for my troubles; neither have my brothers, except when sittin' in judgment court, and even then we only get what’s fair for our time."
"And if we ain’t takin' anything for our hard work in the church, what good does it do us to labor there ‘cept to share the truth and find joy in our folks’ happiness?"
"So why’re you sayin’ we’re preachin’ to enrich ourselves when you know, deep down, we ain’t gettin' nothin’? And do you really believe we’re leadin’ folks astray, givin' ‘em such joy in their hearts?"
And Korihor shot back, "Yep."
Then Alma asked him, “You really believe there ain't no God?”
He replied, "Nope."
Then Alma shot back, "Will ya deny again there’s a God and turn your back on Christ? Listen here, I know there’s a God, and he’ll send Christ."
"And what proof do ya have that there’s no God, or that Christ ain’t comin’? I tell ya, ya got none, other than your word."
"But, I got all the proof I need that this stuff is true; and you’ve got all that's necessary to see the truth too; so you will deny that? You really believe what I just said?"
"See, I know you believe, but you’re downright possessed by a lying spirit, and you’ve cast off the Spirit of God that oughta reside within ya; the devil’s got a hold on you, carryin' you around and workin' up schemes to bring down God’s children."
And then Korihor said to Alma, "If ya could just show me a sign so I can be sure there’s a God, yeah, show me his power, then I’ll believe your words as true."
But Alma replied, "You’ve had enough signs; are ya really gonna tempt God? You’re askin’ for a sign while you’ve got the testimonies of your brothers and the holy prophets right before ya? The scriptures sit in front of you, and everything around ya screams there’s a God; even the earth and all her inhabitants testify to the Supreme Creator."
"And yet you walk around, leading folks astray, telling ‘em there ain't no God? And you’ll deny all these witnesses? He said: Yeah, I’ll deny it, unless you show me a sign."
And so Alma said to him: "I’m troubled by your hard heart, that you continue resistin' the spirit of truth, puttin' your soul in danger."
"But listen here, it’s better for your soul to be lost than for ya to drag many souls down to destruction with your lies and flattery; so if you deny again, mark my words, God will strike you down, and you’ll be dumb as a fence post, never to speak again or deceive these folks."
Korihor shot back, "I ain't denyin’ a God exists, but I don't believe there is one; and I say, you don't know there’s a God. Unless ya show me a sign, I ain’t buyin’ it."
Now Alma said to him: "Here’s the sign: you’re gonna be struck dumb, just like I said, and I declare in the name of God, you’ll lose your words."
And just like that, when Alma said it, Korihor was struck dumb, couldn’t say a single word, just like Alma foretold.
And when the chief judge saw it, he reached out and wrote to Korihor, askin': "Are ya convinced of God’s power now? Who’d you expect Alma to show a sign to? Did ya want him to make others suffer just to show you a sign? Behold, he’s shown you a sign; are ya still gonna argue?"
And Korihor scribbled back, sayin’: "I know I’m dumb, can’t speak; I reckon only the power of God could do this to me; yeah, and I always knew there was a God."
"But the devil done deceived me; he came to me lookin' like an angel, tellin' me: ‘Go and get these people back, ‘cause they’re all chasin’ after an unknown God.’ And he said to me: ‘There’s no God;’ he taught me what to say. I spread those words 'cause they tickled folks' ears; I even had much success, believing those lies were true; and that’s how I brought this great curse upon myself."
After he had said that, he begged Alma to pray to God to lift the curse off him.
But Alma told him, "If this curse gets lifted off ya, you’d just lead these folks away again; so whatever happens, it's up to the Lord."
So it happened that the curse was never lifted from Korihor; he got cast out and wandered from place to place, beggin' for scraps.
Word of what happened to Korihor spread like wildfire across the land; the chief judge sent out a proclamation to everyone, tellin’ those who believed Korihor’s words to hurry up and repent, or face the same judgment.
And folks soon realized the wickedness of Korihor, so they turned back to the Lord; that brought an end to the troubles caused by him. Meanwhile, Korihor kept wandering, begging for bread.
Then it turned out that as he was goin’ through the land, yes sir, he found himself among a group who’d split from the Nephites, callin' themselves Zoramites, led by a man they called Zoram—and as he moved among 'em, wouldn’t ya know, he got run over and trampled down, until he was dead as a doornail.
And that’s how we see the end of a man who twisted the ways of the Lord; and we learn that the devil won’t stand by his children when it’s all said and done, but’ll drag ‘em down to hell before the last sun sets.
