Well now, folks, here’s how it went down: 
They hitched up their saddles and rode out, spreadin’ the Good Word to the folks, wanderin’ into the old churches and people’s homes; shoot, they even hollered it out in the street.
After plenty of hard work, they started seein’ some success with the folks who had seen their share of hard times; reckon they were kicked out of the churches ‘cause their clothes were all ragged-like—
So they weren't allowed to saddle up in the churches to give praise to the Lord, gettin' looked upon as lowly; ‘cause they were poor, bein’ treated like dirt by their fellow kin; they were poky poor in this here world, and also poor in spirit. 
Now, as Alma was up on the hill called Onidah, folks started showin’ up to hear him, the ones we mentioned, folks feelin’ down in their hearts ‘cause they were struggling with their poverty in this world.
They approached Alma, and the leader among ‘em spoke up: “Hey now, what’s to be done for my kinfolk? We’re scorned by every man ‘round here ‘cause we ain’t got a red cent, especially by those so-called holy men; they done pushed us out of our own churches that we toiled hard to build with our own hands; and here we are, thrown out ‘cause we’re dirt poor; where’re we supposed to go to worship our God? What’s our next move?”
Now, when Alma caught wind of this, he spun around quick-like, his face beamin’ with joy, for he saw that their troubles had truly humbled their hearts, and they were ready to hear the Word.
So he didn’t waste time talking to the other crowd; he raised his hand and called out to those who he could see were truly repentant, sayin’:
"I see that y’all are humble at heart; and if that’s the case, you’re mighty blessed.”
“Listen here, your brother’s askin’, what’s to be done?—‘cause we got shut out of our places of worship.”
“I reckon you don’t think you can only worship the Almighty in them fancy churches, do ya?” 
And I gotta ask, you think you gotta just worship God once a week?
Now, I’m sayin’ to you, it’s a good thing you got kicked out of those churches, ‘cause it’ll keep you humble, and it’ll help you learn some wisdom; ‘cause it’s sure necessary for y’all to learn wisdom; it’s ‘cause of bein’ cast out, bein’ looked down on by your own, because of your hard times, that you’ve been brought to have humble hearts; you’re just naturally led to humility.
And now, because you’ve been made to be humble, you’re blessed; ‘cause there’s some men who, when pushed to be humble, start seekin’ repentance; and I tell ya, whoever finds that repentance is gonna find mercy; and he who finds mercy and sticks with it till the end, he’ll be saved.
Now, like I mentioned ‘bout bein’ made humble, don’t you reckon them who truly humble themselves ‘cause of the Word are even more blessed?
You betcha, he who truly humbles himself, repents of his wrongs, and keeps at it to the end, he’s the blessed one—way more blessed than them who just get humble ‘cause they got nothin’.
So, blessed are they who humble themselves without bein’ pushed; or in plainer words, blessed is he who believes in the Word of God and gets baptized without bein’ stubborn, without needin' to know the Word first, or bein’ forced to understand before they’ll believe.
Oh sure enough, there are many who holler: “If you’ll just show us a sign from above, we’ll know for certain and then we’ll believe.”
Now I ask ya, is that what faith’s all ‘bout? I say no; ‘cause if a fella knows somethin’, he don’t need to have faith, ‘cause he already knows it.
Now, how much worse off is a man who knows what God wants and don’t do it, compared to the one who just believes or has cause to believe and slips up?
Now, y’all gotta judge this matter. I tell ya, it’s just as much this way as that; and it’ll be for each man according to how he’s acted.
And as I was sayin’ about faith—faith ain’t about havin’ perfect knowledge; so if you have faith, you’ll be hopin’ for things you can’t see, but you know they’re true.
And right now, I’m tellin’ you, keep this in your minds: God is merciful to all who put their trust in Him; He wants you to start by puttin’ your faith in His Word.
Now, He sends His Word through angels to us poor souls, men and women alike. And don’t forget, even little kiddos sometimes get words that’ve got folks scratchin’ their heads, confoundin’ the wise and learned.
Now listen close, my dear friends, since you’ve been wantin’ to know what to do ‘cause you’re feelin’ low and cut off—don’t think I’m here to judge you based solely on what’s true—
I ain’t sayin’ every last one of ya got pushed to be humble; I truly believe some of you would bow low no matter what your circumstances were. 
Now, like I mentioned ‘bout faith—not bein’ a perfect knowledge—well, the same goes for my words. You ain’t gonna know for certain right away, just like faith ain’t perfect knowledge.
But look here, if you’ll wake up and shake off the dust, and give my words a shot, even if all ya got is a smidge of faith, if you can just muster a desire to believe, let that desire stir in ya until you can accept a bit of my words.
Now, let’s compare the Word to a seed. If you give it a chance to get planted in your heart, if it’s a good seed and you don’t toss it out with disbelief, it’s gonna start swellin’ up inside ya; and when you start feelin’ that swell, you’ll be thinkin’—This must be a good seed, the Word must be good, ‘cause it’s expandin’ my soul; it’s bringin’ light to my understanding, and I’m likin’ it a whole lot.
Now, ain’t that gonna make your faith grow? I reckon so; but it still ain’t grown to perfect knowledge.
But as the seed swells and roots itself, and starts growin’, you gotta say that seed is good; for looky here, it’s swellin’ up, sproutin’, and growin’. Now, think on this—won’t that strengthen your faith? Yes, it sure will; for you’ll say I know this is a good seed; for it’s sproutin’ and it’s takin’ root.
And now, I ask you, you sure this is a good seed? I tell you, yes indeed; ‘cause every seed brings forth its own kind.
So, if a seed’s a-growin’, it’s good, but if it’s not a-growin’, well then, it’s no good, and it’ll get tossed aside.
And now, because you’ve given it a try, planted that seed, and it’s swelled and sprouted and is a-growin’, you can be sure that seed is good.
Now, is your knowledge perfect? Yes, in this matter it’s as good as it gets, and your faith is layin’ low; and that’s ‘cause you know, for you can see that the Word has swelled your souls, and your understanding is bein’ brightened, and your mind is a-expandin’.
So tell me, ain’t that real? I say yes, ‘cause it’s light; and anything that’s light is good, ‘cause you can see it’s good; and now, after you’ve tasted this light, is your knowledge perfect?
I say to you, no; and don’t you go settin’ aside your faith, because you’ve just been exercisin’ your faith to plant the seed so you can try out if it’s any good.
And you see, as the tree starts growin’, you’ll be sayin’: “Let’s take care of it real good so it can take root, grow up, and bear fruit for us.” And now you see, if you nourish it right, it’s gonna take root, grow up, and bring forth fruit.
But if you ignore it and don’t care for its nourishment, well, it ain’t gonna take root; and when the sun shines down hot and fierce, it’ll wither away, and you’ll just pull it up and throw it out.
Now, this ain’t ‘cause the seed was no good, nor is it that the fruit wouldn’t be worth the trouble; it’s ‘cause your soil’s barren, and you wouldn’t nourish the tree, so there’s no fruit for you to partake in.
And just like that, if you won’t tend to the Word, keepin’ your eyes on it with faith, you’ll never be pickin’ from the tree of life.
But if you’ll nourish the Word, yes sir, tend that tree as it starts growin’, with your faith and a whole heap of patience, lookin’ forward to that fruit, it’s gonna take root; and behold, it’ll be a tree sproutin’ up to everlasting life.
And ‘cause of your hard work and faith and patience in nurture that Word, it’ll take root in you, and pretty soon you’ll get to pluck that precious fruit, sweet as the sweetest thing, and whiter than snow, pure as can be; and you’ll get to feast on that fruit till you can’t eat no more, and you won’t hunger or thirst again.
So then, my brothers, you’ll get to reap the rewards of your faith, and hard work, patience, and long-suffering, waitin’ on that tree to bring forth its good fruit to you.
