Zenos figured folks oughta pray and show their respect all over the place, and that the tough times get eased because of the Son—Zenock mentioned that mercy comes on account of the Son—Moses put up a symbol of the Son of God out in the wilds. 'Bout 74 B.C.
Well, after Alma finished jawin', they sent word his way, hankerin' to know if they oughta put their faith in one mighty God, so they could get the good stuff he was chattin' about, or how they could plant that seed, or the word he was yammerin' on about, which he claimed needed to be tucked away in their hearts; or how they should start thinkin' on their faith.
Alma replied to ‘em: Look here, you sure said you couldn’t worship your God ‘cause you got kicked outta your churches. But listen, I tell ya, if you reckon you can’t worship God, you’re makin’ a big mistake, and you oughta dig into the good book; if you think that’s what they’ve taught ya, then you ain’t graspin’ it at all.
Do y’all recall readin’ what Zenos, that old prophet, had to say ‘bout prayin’ or givin’ thanks?
‘Cause he said: You’re a merciful God, for you heard my prayer even when I was out in the wilderness; yep, you were mighty kind when I called to you ‘bout them who were my foes, and you turned ‘em ‘round towards me.
Sure enough, O God, you showed mercy to me when I hollered at ya out in the fields; when I cried out in my prayers, ya listened to me.
And again, O God, when I turned back to my home, you heard me in my prayer.
And when I tucked myself away in my little room, O Lord, and prayed to ya, you didn’t miss a word.
Yep, you’re merciful to your young’uns when they call out to ya, wanting to be heard by you and not by folks, and you’re sure to lend an ear.
Ain't that right, O God, you’ve listened to me in the middle of your gatherings.
And you’ve also heard me when I found myself on the outside, looked down upon by my foes; sure enough, you caught my cries, got riled up at my enemies, and you visited ‘em with quick destruction.
You heard me ‘cause of my troubles and the honesty in my heart; and it’s ‘cause of your Son that you’ve been so kind to me, so I’ll keep callin’ out to you in all my trials, for you are my joy; you’ve set your judgments away from me, thanks to your Son.
Now Alma says to ‘em: Do you reckon you believe them scriptures written by the old-timers?
Listen, if you do, you gotta believe what Zenos said; for he said: You’ve turned your judgments away ‘cause of your Son.
Now looky here, my brothers, I ask if you’ve read the good book? If you have, how kin you doubt the Son of God?
It ain’t just Zenos who talked about this stuff, but Zenock did too—
For looky here, he said: You’re mad, O Lord, at these folks, ‘cause they won’t get a grip on your kindness that you’ve lighted upon ‘em ‘cause of your Son.
And now, brothers, you see that a second old prophet testified ‘bout the Son of God, and since the folks wouldn’t get what he said, they ended up sendin’ him to the grave.
But hold your horses, that ain’t the end; there’s more out there who have had their say ‘bout the Son of God.
Looky here, Moses spoke on him; yep, and a symbol was raised up in the wilderness, so that anyone who gazed upon it might live. And many folks did look and they lived.
But very few understood what all that meant, and that was ‘cause their hearts were as hard as a rock. But a good number were so stubborn they wouldn’t take a look, and therefore they met their end. The reason they wouldn’t look was ‘cause they didn’t believe it’d do ‘em any good.
Oh my brothers, if just a look could heal ya, wouldn’t you do it quick as a jackrabbit, or would you rather nail your heart shut with doubt, bein’ lazy, keepin’ your eyes down and endin’ up lost?
If that’s the case, oh my, a woeful fate awaits you; but if not, then look around and start puttin' your faith in the Son of God, knowin’ he’s gonna ride in to save his people, and that he’ll endure hardships and die to make up for their wrongdoings; and he’ll rise up from the dead, which will kick off the resurrection where all folks will stand before him, to be judged when the time comes, dependin’ on their deeds.
And now, my brethren, I want you to plant this word deep in your hearts, and as it starts to grow, you need to tend to it with your faith. And looky here, it’ll blossom into a tree, sproutin’ to everlasting life. And may God help lighten your loads through the joy of his Son. And all this can be done if you set your mind to it. Amen.
