Well now, after Alma finished jawin’ with everyone and settled down on the dust, Amulek stood up and started tellin' ‘em things, sayin':
"Listen up, folks, it’s downright impossible for ya to not know about what we've been hollerin’ about concerning the arrival of Christ, the one we talk about bein' the Son of God; I reckon I know that y’all been filled to the brim with this knowledge long before ya left us in a huff."
"And since y’all been askin' my dear brother to spill the beans on what y’all oughta do ‘cause of your troubles; he’s given ya some thoughts to help ya get your heads right; sure enough, he’s urged ya to have faith and to put up with tough times—"
"Yeah, even that y’all oughta have enough faith to plant that word right in your hearts, so ya can see for yourself its goodness."
"We’ve noticed that the big question on your minds is whether the word’s in the Son of God, or if there ain’t gonna be no Christ at all."
"Y’all also saw how my brother has laid it out for ya, time and again, that the word’s in Christ leading to salvation."
"My brother’s called upon the words of Zenos, sayin’ that redemption comes through the Son of God, and he’s also called on the words of Zenock; he even brought Moses into play to show y’all this here truth."
"And now, listen up, I’ll testify to ya myself that these things are true. I say to ya, I know that Christ’s gonna show up among folks; He’ll take on himself the wrongdoings of His people and He’ll atone for the sins of the world; the Lord God has commanded it."
"That there’s a need for an atonement to be made; ‘cause according to the big plan of the Eternal God, an atonement has gotta happen, or all of humankind’s gonna end up in a world of hurt; truth is, we’re all hard as rocks; yep, we’re all fallen and lost, and without this here atonement, we’ll surely perish."
"Y’see, it’s necessary that there be a grand and final sacrifice; no, not a sacrifice of a man, a beast, or any bird; it ain't gonna be a human sacrifice; it’s gotta be an infinite and eternal sacrifice."
"No man can spill his own blood and that be enough to pay for someone else’s wrongs. If a feller takes another feller’s life, will our just laws allow for that man’s life to be taken? I tell ya flat out, no."
"But the law demands the life of the one who done the murder; so nothing short of an infinite atonement’s gonna do for the sins of the world."
"So it’s essential for there to be a mighty and last sacrifice, and after that, it oughta put an end to bloodshed; then the law of Moses’ll be all wrapped up; every last bit of it will be fulfilled, down to the smallest detail, and nothin’ will fall by the wayside."
"And behold, this is the sum of the law, every single part pointin’ to that great and last sacrifice; and that great and last sacrifice will be the Son of God; yep, infinite and eternal."
"And through this, He’ll bring salvation to all who believe in His name; this bein' the purpose of this final sacrifice, to bring about mercy that overcomes justice, and givin’ folks the means to have faith to repent."
"So mercy can meet the demands of justice, surroundin’ ‘em in safety’s arms, while those who don’t have faith to repent are left a-layin' ‘neath the weight of justice' demands; so only those who have faith and repent’ll find themselves in the great and eternal plan of redemption."
"So may the good Lord grant ya, my folks, that y’all start puttin’ your faith to work through repentance, and that you call upon His holy name, askin’ for mercy on ya;"
"Yep, holler out to Him for mercy; for He’s got the power to save."
"Humble yourselves, and keep prayin’ to Him."
"Holler out to Him when you're out workin’ your fields, over all your livestock."
"Holler at Him in your homes, over your families, mornin’, noon, and night."
"Yep, cry out to Him against the might of your enemies."
"Shout out against the devil, that rascal who’s an enemy to all that’s righteous."
"Holler at Him for your crops, so they can flourish."
"Shout for your flocks, so they can multiply."
"But there’s more to it; you gotta pour out your heart in your own private spaces, your secret spots, and out in the wilderness."
"And when you ain't callin’ on the Lord, let your hearts be full, liftin’ up prayers for your well-bein’, and for them folks around you."
"And now look here, my cherished folks, I ain’t sayin’ that’s all there is; after you’ve done all this here, if you turn your back on the needy and the bare and don’t visit the sick and those in need, and share what you got, if you have somethin'—I’m tellin’ you right now, if you don’t do these things, your prayers’ll be worthless, and your efforts won’t count, and you’ll be like hypocrites who cast off the faith."
"So if you forget to be kind, you’re like dross that the refiners toss out (it ain’t worth a dime) and it gets trampled underfoot by men."
"And now, my folks, I’d like ya, after seeing so many signs, and knowin’ the holy scriptures bear witness to these truths, to come forth and show some results of your repentance."
"Yep, I want ya to come forth and quit hardenin’ your hearts; for this here is the hour and the day for your salvation; so if you’ll repent and not harden your hearts, right away, the grand plan of redemption’ll unfold before you."
"For this here life is the time for folks to get ready to meet God; yes, looky here, this time is for folks to do their work."
"And now, like I said before, since y’all had yourselves so many witnesses, I’m a-pleadin’ with ya not to put off your repentance till the end; after this life that we’ve got to gear up for eternity, if we don’t make the most of our time here, it’ll turn into a night of darkness when no work can be done."
"You can’t say when it comes time for that awful moment, that I’ll repent, that I’ll go back to my God. No sir, you can’t say that; for the spirit that’s holdin’ onto ya when you leave this life, that same spirit will grab ahold of ya in the next world."
"For if you’ve put off your repentance even until death, then you’ve opened yourself up to the spirit of the devil, and he’s taken you; therefore, the Spirit of the Lord has stepped back from ya, and there ain’t no room for Him in you, and the devil’s got full rein over ya; and that’s the final state for the wicked."
"And I know this for sure, ‘cause the Lord’s said He don’t hang out in unholy places, but dwells in the hearts of the righteous; yes, and He’s also said that the righteous’ll sit in His kingdom, never to leave again; but their clothes will be washed white through the blood of the Lamb."
"And now, my cherished folks, I hope you remember these things, and that you work out your salvation with a healthy respect for God, and quit denying the coming of Christ;"
"Don’t fight against the Holy Ghost no more, but take it on, and wear the name of Christ; humble yourselves down to the dust, and worship God, wherever you may find yourself, in spirit and in truth; and live each day with gratitude for all the mercies and blessings He doles out on ya."
"Yep, and I also urge you, my folks, stay alert in prayer always, so ya ain’t led astray by the temptations of the devil, so he don’t overpower ya, so ya don’t end up his subjects on that final day; for he won’t give ya nothin’ good."
"And now my loyal folks, I encourage ya to have patience, and endure all kinds of troubles; don’t let the naysayers who throw ya out ‘cause of your poverty get ya riled up, or else you’ll end up sinning like they do;"
"But have patience, bear your trials, with the hope that one day, you’ll find rest from all your afflictions."
