Well now, after Amulek finished spoutin’ off his thoughts, them fellas backed away from the crowd and headed over to Jershon’s territory.
Right then, the rest of the gang, after chewin' the fat with the Zoramites, made their way to Jershon too.
Soon enough, the more popular Zoramites huddled up together, all riled up 'cause of the preachin' they heard, which was puttin’ a serious dent in their business; so they straight up ignored the words preached at 'em.
They sent out a call, gatherin’ folks from all around the region to talk about what had just been shared with 'em.
Their leaders, priests, and teachers kept their folks in the dark about their real motives, sneakily pokin’ around to see what everyone thought.
Once they got a handle on the folks’ thoughts, those who liked what Alma and his pals said got the boot, and there were quite a few; they then wandered over to Jershon too.
So, Alma and his crew started helpin’ 'em out.
Well, the Zoramites were madder than a hatter at the Ammon folks hangin’ out in Jershon, and their top dog, a real scoundrel, hollered at the Ammonites demandin’ they kick out anyone who high-tailed it to their land.
He let loose a heap of threats against 'em. But the Ammon folks didn’t bat an eye at his bluster; instead, they took in all the down-and-out Zoramites that showed up, givin’ 'em food, clothes, and a patch of ground to call their own, takin’ care of 'em as best they could.
This ticked off the Zoramites something fierce, and they started cozyin’ up to the Lamanites, gettin’ 'em all riled up too.
So, the Zoramites and the Lamanites started makin’ plans for a showdown against the Ammon folks and the Nephites.
That right there wrapped up the seventeenth year of the judges rule over Nephi’s folk.
The Ammon bunch packed up and left Jershon, movin’ into Melek and makin’ room for the Nephites' army, ready to face off against the Lamanites and Zoramites; and thus kicked off a tussle between the Lamanites and the Nephites in the eighteenth year of the judges’ reign, with stories of their battles to follow.
Alma, Ammon, and their kin, along with Alma’s two sons, headed back to Zarahemla after helpin’ a heap of Zoramites turn their lives around; those who found their way back to righteousness were pushed out of their own land but got some land in Jershon for themselves now, takin' up arms to protect their families and their homesteads.
Alma, troubled by the wickedness of his folks, the fights, the blood spilled, and the arguments among 'em, had been on a mission to spread the word to all the towns; and seein’ hearts hardenin’ and folks gettin’ prickly 'bout the strict words bein’ shared, his heart was heavy as lead.
So, he rounded up his sons to give each one a talk about doin' what’s right. And we got a record of all the things he laid on 'em, just like he kept track of it.
