Well now, listen up, son, 'cause I’m tellin’ ya straight—if you stick to the good Lord’s rules, you'll be livin’ high on the hog in this here land.
I reckon you oughta follow in my boots, rememberin’ how our kin were trapped like rattlers in a barrel; couldn’t find a way out ‘cept for the big fella above—Abraham’s God, Isaac’s God, and Jacob’s God—who rode in to rescue ‘em from their trials.
Now, Helaman, since you’re still wet behind the ears, I’m plead in’ with ya to lend me your ear and soak up what I’m preachin’; for it’s true, anyone who puts their faith in God’ll find support through all the hard times and will rise up come Judgment Day.
And don’t go thinkin’ I’m spoutin’ off wisdom I cooked up on my own—this ain’t about earthly matters, but the spiritual stuff, not the fleshly nonsense, but the ways of God.
Now hear me out, if I hadn’t been born of God, I’d be blind as a bat to all this; but the good Lord’s holy messenger laid it all out for me, not ‘cause I earned it or anything fancy.
See, I was out there with Mosiah’s boys tryin’ to tear down the church of God, but lo and behold, the Almighty sent His angel to throw a hitch in our plans.
That angel spoke like a clap of thunder, and the earth shook underneath us; we all hit the ground 'cause we were scared ‘nuff to shake the boots off a longhorn steer.
Then the voice called out to me: Get up! So I dusted myself off and stood up tall, lookin’ right at the angel.
And the angel told me that if I had a mind to self-destruct, I best leave the church of God alone, or else.
Well, I fell flat on my face, and for three whole days and nights, I couldn’t utter a peep or move a muscle.
The angel kept talkin’, sayin’ things my brothers heard clear as day, but I was too gummed up with fear to catch 'em; when I heard him mention self-destruction, I was so scared I hit the ground and couldn’t hear another blessed word.
But goodness gracious, I was tormented like a coyote caught in a trap, for my soul was grieved to the max, wracked over all the wrongs I'd ever done.
I remembered every single sin and transgression that had me tormented in the depths of hell; I saw how I had turned my back on my God and had failed to uphold His holy commands.
Heck, I had led many of His children down the wrong trail, all the way to their doom; so many wrongs that the mere thought of standing before God filled me with unspeakable dread.
Oh, I thought, if only I could just poof away and vanish, soul and body, to avoid standin’ before my God for judgment on my misdeeds.
For three days and three nights, I was tossed by the pains of a damned soul, living a nightmare.
Then it struck me like a bolt outta the blue, amid my torment and recalling my sins, I remembered my father preachin’ to the folks about a Jesus Christ, the Son of God, who'd come to set the world right.
As I grabbed hold of that thought, I cried out inside: Oh Jesus, Son of God, have mercy on this bitter soul stuck in the chains of death.
And lo and behold, as I thought this, all my pains faded away; I was no longer haunted by my past.
Oh, the joy and the brilliant light I witnessed; my spirit was filled with joy surpassing all the pain I had felt!
I tell ya, son, there ain’t nothin’ more exquisite and bitter than my sufferin’. And again, I say, there ain't a sweeter joy than what I felt after.
It was like I saw what our father Lehi saw, God sittin’ high and mighty on His throne surrounded by a throng of angels, singin’ and shoutin’ praises; my heart ached to be there.
But then my strength came back, and I was back on my feet, showin’ the folks that I’d been born of God.
From then 'til now, I’ve been laborin’ nonstop to bring folks to repentance so they can taste the same joy I did, to help ‘em be born of God and filled with the Holy Ghost.
And now, son, I gotta tell ya, the Lord fills me with joy from the fruits of my labor;
Thanks to the word He’s shared with me, many have been born of God and tasted His goodness just like I have, seen things with their own eyes; they know the truths I speak ‘cause I know ‘em down to my core, and that knowledge comes straight from God.
Through all kinds of trials and tribulations, I’ve leaned on Him; He’s pulled me outta tight spots, from prison, bonds, and even death’s grip; I trust Him to keep deliverin’ me.
And I’m certain He’ll lift me up come the final day, so I can dwell with Him in glory, and I’ll sing His praises forever; He led our forefathers outta Egypt and drowned the Egyptians in the Red Sea; He guided ‘em with His mighty hand into the promised land; He’s freed ‘em from bondage again and again.
And don’t forget, He brought our folks outta Jerusalem not too long ago; with His everlasting power, He’s freed 'em from their bonds time and again, even up to now; I always keep their past captivity close to my heart, and you ought to too.
But listen here, son, that ain’t all; you should know just like I do that if you stick to God’s commandments, you’ll prosper in this here land; and if you don’t, you’ll find yourself cut off from His presence. That’s the way it is, according to His word.
