Lend me your ear, son, ‘cause I’ve got somethin’ to tell ya, just like I told Helaman. If you stick to God’s rules, you’ll find your fortunes in this here land; but if you go astray, well, you’ll be cut off from Him, no doubt about it.
Now listen up, my boy, I’m hopin’ to see you bring me much joy ‘cause of your steadfastness and loyalty to God; you’ve begun in your young years to seek the good Lord, and I reckon you’ll keep on followin’ His path, ‘cause blessed is the fella who hangs in there till the very end.
I gotta say, son, already filled my heart with joy seein’ how faithful and hard-workin’ you’ve been, showin’ patience and endurance among the Zoramites.
I know you’ve had your share of troubles; reckon you were in chains and even got stoned for speakin’ the truth, but you held on tight ‘cause the Lord was right there with ya; now you know He pulled you through.
And now, Shiblon, remember this: put your trust in God, and He’ll see ya through your trials, your troubles, and your heartaches, and in the end, He’ll lift you up.
Now, son, don’t think I’ve figured this all out on my own; it’s the Spirit of God that’s shown me the ropes; if I hadn’t been born of God, I wouldn’t know a lick about all this.
But lo and behold, the Lord in His mercy sent an angel to tell me to stop the path of destruction ‘mongst His people; sure as shootin’, I saw an angel face to face, and he spoke to me, his voice boom’n like thunder that shook the very ground.
I reckon I spent three days and three nights in the most terrible pain and torment; it wasn’t till I hollered out to the Lord Jesus Christ for mercy that I found any relief for my sins. But let me tell ya, when I cried out, I found peace for my soul.
Now, son, I’m sharing this so you can wise up and see that there’s no other way for a man to be saved ‘cept through Christ. He’s the life and light of this world; the very word of truth and right living.
So as you’ve started teachin’, keep it up, I tell ya; be diligent and moderate in all you do.
Watch out for pride; don’t be boastin’ about your smarts or your strength.
Be bold, but don’t be pushy; and reign in those wild passions to fill your heart with love; make sure you don’t get lazy.
Don’t be prayin’ like the Zoramites; you’ve seen how they pray to be seen by others and puffed up for their wisdom.
Don’t say, “O God, we’re better than the rest”; say instead, “O Lord, forgive my unworthiness, and remember my brethren with mercy”—always keep your unworthiness in mind before God.
May the Lord bless your soul and take you into His kingdom on that final day to rest in peace. Now go on, my boy, and teach the good word to these folks. Stay clear-headed. Farewell, son.
