Well now, my young'un, I got a heap more to share with you than I did with your brother; fer you seen how steady your brother's been, how true he's stayed to the ways of the Almighty? Ain't he set a mighty fine example for ya?
You didn’t pay near as much attention to my words as your brother did ‘mongst the Zoramites. Now, here’s the rub; you were braggin’ ‘bout your strength and smarts.
But that ain't all, my son. You done something that really got under my skin; you up and left the ministry, ridin’ over to Siron, gallivantin' after that there harlot Isabel.
Yep, she done stole the hearts of many a man; but that don’t excuse your actions, son. You oughta have stuck to the ministry that was trusted to ya.
Don’t you know, son, that such things are a real affront to the Lord; reckon they are the worst of sins ‘less it’s spillin’ innocent blood or turnin’ your back on the Holy Ghost?
If you turn your back on the Holy Ghost when it’s lived in you, and you know you're doin’ it, well, that’s a sin that ain’t gonna be pardoned; and anybody who kills in the light of God’s knowledge sure won’t find it easy to get forgiveness; I tell ya, son, it ain't easy for ‘em at all.
Now, I sure do wish you hadn’t got yourself in such deep trouble. I wouldn’t wanna bring up your misdeeds just to make you squirm, if it weren’t for your own good.
But listen, you can't hide your wrongs from God; and if you don’t do right, those sins will stand against ya when judgment day rolls around.
So, my son, I reckon you oughta repent and leave them sins behind, quit chasin’ after the lusts of your eyes, and steer clear of them shady dealings; for if you don’t, you ain’t gonna inherit the kingdom of God. Remember this, take it to heart, and keep away from that sort of trouble.
And I charge you to consult with your elder brothers on your plans; ‘cause you’re still young, and you could use some good ol' guidance from them. So listen close to their advice.
Don’t let yourself get led astray by any foolish notions; don’t let the devil take your heart wandering again after those wicked women. Just look, son, at the harm you’ve brought onto the Zoramites; when they saw how you acted, they wouldn’t believe a word I said.
Now the Spirit of the Lord is telling me: you gotta guide your kin to do right, or they might lead a whole lot of folks to ruin; so I command you, my son, in the reverence of God, to steer clear of your misdeeds;
Turn your heart to the Lord with all your might, strength, and spirit; don’t lead anyone else to do wickedness; instead, turn back to ‘em and own up to your faults and wrongdoings.
Don’t be chasing after gold or the glittery trinkets of this here world; ‘cause you can’t take none of that with ya when it’s all said and done.
Now, my son, I want to say a thing or two about the coming of Christ. Believe me when I say, He’s surely gonna come to wipe away the sins of this here world; yep, He’s comin' to spread the good word of salvation to His people.
And this here was the mission you were called to, to spread them glad tidings to this folks, to get their minds ready; or better yet, that salvation might reach ‘em, so they might prepare their children to hear the good word when He comes.
Now I’m gonna take a load off your mind ‘bout this here matter. You’re wondering why these things are known so far ahead of time. Listen here, is a soul right now any less precious to God than one will be when He arrives?
Ain't it just as important for the plan of redemption to be revealed to this crowd as it is to their young’uns?
Ain't it just as easy right now for the Lord to send His angel with them good tidings to us as it is to our children, or even after He comes?
