Well, now it was the sixth year since them judges took the reins over the folks in Nephi, an' there wasn't a scrap of fighting or fussin' goin' on in Zarahemla; 
But folks were sufferin’ mightily, mournin' the loss of their kinfolk, their cattle, and their fields of grain all stomped down and wrecked by them Lamanites.
Their troubles ran so deep that everyone had a reason to be sad; they figured it was God's wrath lettin' loose on 'em for their misdeeds and wrongdoings, which got 'em rememberin' their duties.
So they started settlin' the church more firmly; a heap of them took the plunge in the waters of Sidon, joinin' up with the good Lord's church; and it was Alma, who was the high priest over the congregation, doin' the baptizin'. 
In the seventh year of them judges, 'bout three thousand five hundred souls hitched their wagons to the church and got baptized. The seventh year wrapped up with peace bein' the name of the game all that time.
But come the eighth year of them judges’ reign, the church folks started to get a little too big for their britches, what with their fancy riches, silks, linens, and an abundance of livestock, gold, silver, and all sorts of shinies, earned through their own hard work; they got all puffed up and started sportin' some mighty fine clothes.
This surely put a burr under Alma’s saddle, as well as a number of them he’d set up as teachers, priests, and elders; many of 'em were heavy-hearted over the wickedness poppin’ up among their own crowd.
They saw their brethren swelled with pride, settin’ their hearts on riches and the empty things of the world, bein’ scornful to each other, and persecutin’ those who didn’t see things their way.
So, in that eighth year of judge’s reign, all sorts of quarrels broke out amongst the church folks; there was jealousy, fussin’, spite, persecutions, and pride, even greater than them folks who didn’t belong to God’s church.
And so wrapped up was the eighth year of judges’ reign; the church's wickedness turned into a real stumbling block for those outside the fold, leadin' to a downturn in the church’s progress.
As the ninth year rolled around, Alma caught sight of the church’s wicked ways, and he noticed that the church was settin' a poor example, leadin' the unbelievers down a dark path of sin, causin' a heap of destruction among the people.
He saw folks bein’ unequal; some were puffin’ themselves up, lookin’ down their noses at others, turnin’ their backs on those in need—the naked, hungry, thirsty, and sick.
This stirred up a world of heartbreak among the people, while others were humble, lendin’ a hand to those down on their luck, shar' their goods with the poor, feedin’ the hungry, and sufferin’ all sorts of trials for Christ’s sake, who was comin’ as the prophets foretold;
They were lookin' forward to that day, holdin’ tight to their chances of bein' forgiven, filled with joy at the resurrection of the dead, all thanks to the will and might of Jesus Christ breakin’ the chains of death.
Now, Alma saw the tough times faced by the humble followers of God, and the heap of troubles laid on ‘em by the rest of his kin, and the glaring inequality made him right sorrowful; but still, the Spirit of the Lord was holdin' strong with him.
He picked out a savvy man from among the church elders and granted him authority, just as the folks called for, so he could make laws and enforce ‘em based on the people’s wickedness and wrongdoing.
This fella was named Nephihah, and he got sworn in as chief judge, sittin' in the judgment seat to keep law and order among the folks.
Alma didn’t hand over the high priest title to him, holdin' onto that role for himself, but he gave Nephihah the judgment seat to run things.
He did this so he could roam among his people, preachin’ the word of God to remind 'em of their duties, takin' aim at all the pride, trickery, and squabbles that were mixin’ in their midst, seein' no other way to wake 'em up ‘cept by pointin’ out the truth straight up.
Thus started the ninth year of judges’ rule over Nephi's folk, and Alma passed that judgment seat to Nephihah, puttin' all his time and energy into bein' the high priest of the holy order of God, stickin’ to the testimony of the word, guided by the spirit of revelation and prophecy.
