Well now, partner, reckon this livin’ on Earth is kinda like a trial for folks to turn around and serve the Good Lord—'cause that Fall got all of mankind in a heap of trouble, both here and in the afterlife—salvation’s got a lot to do with saying sorry—The Good Lord Himself pays the price for the world’s wrongdoings—them that repent get mercy—while the rest are lookin’ down the barrel of God’s justice—mercy comes 'cause of the Atonement—only them who truly feel remorse get saved. 
I see, my young'un, there's some things gnawing at ya, like a dog on a bone, that you can’t quite wrap your head around—like how God deals out justice to them sinners; you might think it ain’t right for the sinner to end up in a miserable spot.
So hear me out, my son, I’m fixin’ to lay it all out for ya. After the Good Lord sent our first folks outta the Eden patch to work the land, where they first came from—yep, He pulled the man out and stationed cherubim at the garden’s east end, brandishing a flaming sword turnin’ every which way to guard that tree of life—
Now, you see, that man had gotten wise like the Almighty, knowing both good and evil; and since he might stretch out his hand, snag some fruit from the tree of life, and live forever, the Good Lord set the cherubim and the flaming sword to keep him from takin' a bite—
So we see, there was a time given to humanity to make amends, a kind of test-run, a chance to repent and serve the Almighty.
If Adam had jumped right in and grabbed a hold of that tree of life, he’d’ve lived on forever, just like the Lord said, without no chance to make things right; yep, that’d make the word of God empty and muck up the whole salvation plan.
But hey, it was meant for man to kick the bucket—so when they got the boot from the tree of life, they had to wander off from the good Earth—and man got lost for all time, sure as shootin’, he became a fallen critter.
Now, you see here that our first folks were cut off both in this world and the next from the Lord’s presence; and thus they ended up following their own reckless ways.
Looky here, it wouldn’t have made sense for man to be fetched back from this earthly death, 'cause that would mess up the grand plan of happiness.
So as the soul can’t ever die, and the fall brought upon all folks a spiritual kicking too, as in they got booted from God’s presence, it was wise for folks to have a chance to be brought back from this spiritual death.
So as they found themselves all worldly and full of desire, this here test became a time to get ready; it turned into a settin’-up stage.
Now remember, my son, if it weren’t for the plan of redemption (settin’ it aside), once they were gone, their souls would be in a sorry mess, cut off from the Lord’s company.
And if there wasn’t no way to bring folks back from this fallen state, which they dragged upon themselves from their own stubbornness;
Then, seein’ as it was justice’s way, that redemption plan couldn’t even be set into motion unless folks repented in this tryin’ time, this preparatory phase; 'cause without these conditions, mercy wouldn’t kick in without wreckin’ justice’s work. And justice’s work can’t be knocked down; if it could, God would stop bein’ God.
So we see all folks had taken a tumble, caught in justice’s grip; yep, God’s justice, which sent 'em rollin’ on outta His presence.
Now, the mercy plan couldn’t get underway unless someone made the ultimate sacrifice; so that’s how God Himself atoned for the world’s misdeeds, to bring about mercy’s plan, to meet justice’s demands, that God might be both a fair and merciful feller.
Now, repentance couldn’t land on folks unless there was a punishment, which was as forever as the soul itself, lined up right against the happiness plan, which was as eternal too.
Now, how in tarnation could a man repent if he didn’t sin? How could he sin if there weren’t no law? How could there be a law if there wasn’t a punishment?
Well, there’s a punishment laid down, and a fair law given, which stirred conscience within man.
Now, if there wasn’t no law sayin'—that if a man were to kill, he should die—would he be frettin’ about meetin’ his maker if he went and killed someone?
And also, if there wasn’t no law against sin, men wouldn’t be afraid to go ahead and sin.
And if there weren’t no law, if men sinned, what could justice do, or mercy for that matter, 'cause they wouldn’t have no claim on a soul?
But there’s a law in place, and a punishment set, and a chance to repent; which that repentance, mercy latches onto; elsewise, justice would claim the poor soul and dish out the law, and the law would hand down the punishment; if that didn’t happen, justice’s work would be ruined, and God would stop bein’ God.
But God don’t stop bein’ God, and mercy claims the sorry soul, and mercy comes thanks to the atonement; and the atonement makes the dead rise again; and the resurrection brings folks back into God’s fold; and so they get to face Him, judged by their deeds, by the laws and justice.
For sure, justice goes ahead takin’ care of all its demands, and mercy claims what’s hers; and so, only the truly repentant are saved.
What’s that, do ya think mercy can snatch away from justice? I reckon not; no sirree. If it could, then God would stop bein’ God.
And so it goes that God brings about His grand plans that were set up since time began. And that’s how salvation and redemption for folks happens, along with their downfall and misery.
So listen here, my son, whosoever wants to come may come and drink from the waters of life free as a bird; and whosoever don’t wanna come ain’t forced to come; but come the last day, they’ll get what’s headed their way based on their deeds.
If he’s hungered for the bad stuff, and hasn’t turned from it in his days, behold, bad news will come round for him, according to God’s restoration.
And now, my son, I want you to stop lettin’ these thoughts gnaw at ya, and just let your own sins bug you, with that kind of bug that’ll bring ya low enough to repent.
Oh my son, don’t deny God’s justice no more. Don’t try to wiggle outta your sins, no matter how small, by callin’ God’s justice into question; rather, let justice, mercy, and God’s patience have their full run in your heart, and let it bring ya down to earth in humbleness.
And now, oh my son, you’ve got God’s call to preach the Word to these folks. So go on, share the truth straight and sober-headed, so that you can lead souls to repent and let the grand plan of mercy lay claim on ‘em. And may God grant you according to my words. Amen.
