Well now, it all started when the boys of Alma rode out among the folks to rustle up the good word. And Alma himself, he couldn't sit still neither, so he saddled up and joined ‘em.
Ain't much more to say ‘bout their preachin', other than they spouted truth and prophecy like fire from a brand, doin' it by the holy order of God that called ‘em to the task.
Now I reckon it's time to spin a yarn ‘bout the tussles ‘twixt the Nephites and the Lamanites, particular-like in that eighteenth year of the judges’ reign.
For lo, the Zoramites turned Lamanite, and as the eighteenth year dawned, the Nephites cast eyes upon the Lamanites stormin’ towards ‘em, so they readied their steeds and rallied their troops in Jershon.
And sure as shootin', the Lamanites rolled in like a stampede, leadin’ their thousands right into Antionum, land o’ the Zoramites, and their captain was a feller named Zerahemnah.
Now the Amalekites, bein’ even more ornery and bloodthirsty than the Lamanites, had Zerahemnah set up chief captains, and every last one of ‘em was an Amalekite or Zoramite.
He done it to keep the flames of hatred burnin’ against the Nephites, hopin’ to whip ‘em into shape to fulfill his own wicked plans.
Yessiree, his aim was to rile up the Lamanites against the Nephites, lookin’ to claim power over ‘em and put ‘em under his thumb.
The Nephites, on the other hand, aimed to look after their lands, homes, wives, and young’uns, protectin’ ‘em from the hands of their foes and keepin’ their rights and freedoms safe so they could worship God as they pleased.
‘Cause they knew full well if they fell into the grips of the Lamanites, ‘bout anyone who wanted to worship God in spirit and truth, the livin’ Lord, would be stamped out.
And they were also aware of the extreme hatred the Lamanites held for their kin, the Anti-Nephi-Lehi folk, known as the people of Ammon—who refused to take up arms ‘cause they’d made a promise not to break it—so fallin’ into Lamanite hands meant certain doom for them.
And the Nephites sure wouldn’t allow that to happen, so they granted the Ammonites land for their home.
Them Ammonites pitched in plenty of their goods to help the Nephite armies, leavin’ ‘em standin’ alone to fend off the Lamanites, who were a mix of Laman, Lemuel, and the sons of Ishmael, with a whole lot of dissenters from the Nephites, includin’ Amalekites and Zoramites, plus some descendants of the priests of Noah.
Now them descendants were nearly as many as the Nephites, so the Nephites found themselves in quite the pickle, fightin' their own kin right down to bloodshed.
And it came to pass that as the Lamanite army collected in Antionum, the Nephite forces were standin' ready to meet ‘em on Jershon's land.
Now, the head honcho of the Nephites, the chief captain who was put in charge of their warriors—his name was Moroni; he took command of the whole Nephite army.
Moroni wrangled the reins of the fightin' for his folks. He was just a sprout, only twenty-five winters old when he got the captain's badge.
Lo and behold, he met the Lamanites at the border of Jershon, and his crew was outfitted with swords, cimeters, and all kinds of battle gear.
When the Lamanites saw that Moroni and his Nephites were decked out in breastplates and shieldin’, plus head protection and thick duds—
Zerahemnah’s crowd didn’t have any of that fancy armor; they were just armed with swords and cimeters, bows and arrows, rocks and slings; most were just about naked, save for a skinny hide wrapped ‘round their waists; yeah, all were bare-boned ‘cept for the Zoramites and the Amalekites.
But they weren’t sportin’ any breastplates or shields—so they were downright skittish facing the Nephites, even though they outnumbered ‘em.
Well now, it came to pass they didn’t have the guts to charge the Nephites in Jershon’s border; instead, they skedaddled outta Antionum, heading into the wild, making their way ‘round Sidon's riverhead, tryin’ to creep into Manti’s land to stake their claim—figured Moroni’s army wouldn’t catch wind of ‘em.
But soon as they hit the wilderness, Moroni sent out scouts to keep an eye on their camp; also, knowin’ the prophecies of Alma, he sent some trusted guys to see if Alma could ask the Lord where the Nephite army should head to ward off the Lamanites.
And just like that, the Lord opened His mouth to Alma, who relayed word to Moroni’s messengers that the Lamanites were circlin’ ‘round in the wilderness to creep into Manti, lookin’ to strike at the weaker folks. The messengers boogied back to Moroni with the news.
Now Moroni, leavin’ some of his army hangin’ back in Jershon, didn’t want any Lamanites sneakin’ into that territory to snatch the city, took the rest of his crew and rode over to Manti.
And he rustled up all the folks in that part of the land to gather ready for a scrap against the Lamanites, to guard their homes, their rights, and their liberties; ready as a bee in a bonnet when the Lamanites rode in.
Moroni then hid his army away in a valley close to Sidon’s bank, on the west side of the river, deep in the wild.
He placed scouts ‘round to keep a watchful eye on that Lamanite camp.
Now as Moroni got the scoop on the Lamanites’ plan to wipe out their brothers or subdue them to set up shop for themselves across the land;
He also knew that the Nephites only wanted to shield their lands, their freedom, and their church, so he figured it wouldn’t be no sin to defend 'em with some clever tricks; hence, he learned from his scouts which way the Lamanites were fixin’ to go.
So he split his army, hid part over in the valley to the east and south of Riplah Hill;
And the rest he stashed in the west valley, on the west side of Sidon, down along the borders of Manti.
Thusly, once he set his army the way he wanted, he laid in wait to greet 'em.
Then it came to pass that the Lamanites came up north of the hill where some of Moroni's army was tucked away.
As the Lamanites passed Riplah Hill and spilled into the valley, startin’ to cross Sidon’s river, the hidden army led by a fellow named Lehi came on out and surrounded the Lamanites from the east, catchin’ ‘em in their back.
And when the Lamanites spotted the Nephites comin’ at ‘em from behind, they swung around to face Lehi’s army.
A right deadly ruckus kicked off on both sides, but it was a sight more savage against the Lamanites, ‘cause they weren’t covered up proper, takin’ the brunt of the Nephite blows from their swords and cimeters, droppin’ like flies with every swing.
Meanwhile, a few Nephites went down too, but they were better shielded from the more critical hits ‘cause of their breastplates and arm shields; so the Nephites kept up the deadly work against the Lamanites.
And it came to pass that the Lamanites got downright spooked, seein’ the destruction around them, and they started to bolt toward the river Sidon.
Hot on their heels were Lehi and his men, pushin’ the Lamanites right into the waters of Sidon, keepin’ their army perched by the edge so they couldn’t cross.
Then Moroni and his lads met the Lamanites in the valley on the far side of Sidon’s river, settlin’ in hard against ‘em, takin’ ‘em down.
The Lamanites took off again towards Manti, only to be met once more by Moroni’s army.
Now, this time around, the Lamanites fought fierce; never before had they fought with such ungodly strength and gall, not ever since the start of it all.
They were spurred on by the Zoramites and Amalekites, their chief captains, led by Zerahemnah who was their main commander; indeed, they fought like wild beasts, bringin’ many a Nephite to the ground, breakin’ through their head plates and piercin’ their breast plates, and takin’ off a heap of arms; in their furious rage, the Lamanites struck hard.
Still, the Nephites were driven by a nobler cause, fightin’ not for crowns nor power, but for their homes, liberties, wives, young’uns, and their fundamental rights to worship as they chose.
They were doin’ what they felt to be a duty owed to their God; for the Lord had told ‘em, just like He told their kin, that as long as they weren’t guilty of the first or second wrong, they wouldn’t need to lay down their lives at the hands of the enemy.
And the Lord had also stated that they should protect their families even if it came to spillin’ blood. So that’s why the Nephites were at it like bees in a hive against the Lamanites, fightin' to defend themselves, their families, their land, their country, their rights, and their faith.
It came to pass that when Moroni's men beheld the ferocity and fury of the Lamanites, some were fixin’ to tuck tail and run. But Moroni, catchin’ onto their scheme, spurred ‘em on with thoughts of their lands, their freedom, their very liberty from bondage.
And sure enough, they turned right around and cried out with one voice to their Lord, askin’ for that liberty and freedom from the shadow of chains.
They squared off against the Lamanites with all their might; and in that very minute they cried out for their freedom, the Lamanites began to scatter like tumbleweed blown by a strong wind, right back to Sidon’s river.
Now, the Lamanites were more than double the Nephites’ number; yet they were chased so hard that they huddled together in one mess down in the valley by Sidon’s bank.
So the armies of Moroni flanked ‘em about, even on both sides of the river, seein’ as how on the east, Lehi’s men were waitin’.
Now when Zerahemnah caught sight of Lehi on one side of Sidon’s river, and Moroni’s troops on the other, encirclin’ ‘em completely, fear took hold of ‘em. 
When Moroni saw that terror grippin’ ‘em, he hollered for his men to quit spillin’ blood.
