And it came to pass that they did halt and took a step back from ‘em. And Moroni said to Zerahemnah: “Look here, Zerahemnah, we ain’t lookin’ to be shootin’ men down. You know you’re in our grip, but we sure don’t want to take your life.”
“Now listen here, we ain’t come to throw down with you just to make a fuss for power; we don’t aim to shackle nobody either. But you’re the ones come after us ‘cause you’re mad about our way of livin’ and what we believe.”
“Now you see that the Good Lord’s got our backs; He’s led you right into our grip. And I want you to know that’s ‘cause of our beliefs and our trust in Christ. You realize now that you can’t wipe out what we believe.”
“You can see for yourself that this here’s the true faith of God; yes, you see that God will stand by us, hold us up, and keep us safe, as long as we’re true to Him, our beliefs, and our way of life; and He ain’t about to let us be wiped out ‘less we go and break our faith.”
“And now, Zerahemnah, I tell ya, in the name of the Almighty God, who’s given us the strength to get the upper hand on ya, through our faith, our beliefs, and our way of worship, and for the love we got for our wives and kids, and the freedom that ties us to our land; and by the precious Word of God, which makes us happy—”
“Yep, and that ain’t all; I command ya by all you cherish in this life, you hand over your weapons of war to us, and we swear we won’t take your lives, if you promise to skedaddle and don’t come back to pick a fight.”
“And now, if ya don’t do this, well, you’re in our hands, and I’ll tell my men to fall on ya and give ya a good whippin’, so you might just disappear; then we’ll see who’s really in charge ‘round here; yes, we’ll see who’s endin’ up on the wrong side of things.”
“And then Zerahemnah, after he heard all this, stepped up and handed over his sword, his fancy blade, and his bow to Moroni, sayin’: ‘Look here, these are our weapons of war; we’ll give ‘em to ya, but we can’t swear no oath to ya, ‘cause we know we’ll break it, and so will our kin; so take our weapons and let us head out into the wild; if not, we’ll keep our swords, and it’ll be sink or swim for us.’”
“Now look here, we ain’t part of your faith; we don’t reckon it was God who put us in your grip; we think it’s your trickery that kept ya safe from our swords. It’s your armor and shields that’s kept ya livin’.”
“And when Zerahemnah finished barkin’ out his words, Moroni gave back the sword and the arms he’d gotten from him, sayin’: ‘Well now, we’ll call it quits then.’”
“Now I can’t forget the words I’ve spoken, so as sure as the Lord lives, you ain’t movin’ ‘til ya promise not to come back at us again. As you sit here in our grip, we’ll spill your blood on the ground, or you’ll agree to the terms I’ve laid out.”
“And when Moroni done said that, Zerahemnah clung to his sword, madder than a hornet at Moroni, and he charged in to take a swing at him; but as he raised his blade, one of Moroni’s men knocked it from his hand, and it broke clean. He also caught Zerahemnah with a strike that took off his scalp and let it fall to the ground. Zerahemnah beat a hasty retreat among his troops.”
“And it came to pass that the soldier standin’ nearby, who just took Zerahemnah's scalp, picked it up by the hair, poked it onto the tip of his sword, and held it out for all to see, yellin’ real loud:”
“Just like this here scalp’s dropped to the dirt, the scalp of your chief, so shall you meet the same fate unless ya hand over your weapons of war and skedaddle with a peace agreement.”
“When a whole mess of ‘em saw and heard these words and gazed at the scalp on the sword, they shook with fear; and a whole bunch came forward and tossed their weapons down at Moroni’s feet, and they shook hands on a peace deal. And all who accepted the peace went on their merry way out into the wilds.”
“Now Zerahemnah was fumin’, and he stirred up what was left of his men, gettin’ ‘em riled up to fight harder against the Nephites.”
“And then Moroni got good and mad at the Lamanites for bein’ so stubborn; so he ordered his folks to fall on ‘em and take ‘em down. And it came to pass that they started cutting ‘em down; sure enough, the Lamanites were swingin’ their swords and givin’ it all they had.”
“But them poor Lamanites, with their bare skin and bald heads layin’ in the open, were easy pickin’s for the sharp blades of the Nephites; they got stabbed and cut, and many fell fast before the Nephite swords, just like Moroni’s soldiers had predicted they would.”
“Now Zerahemnah, seein’ his lot was about to be wiped out, cried out real loud to Moroni, promising he’d make a peace pact and get his folks to do the same if they’d spare their lives and never come after ‘em again.”
“And it came to pass that Moroni said to call off the killing amongst the folks. He took the weapons from the Lamanites; and once they made a pact of peace with him, they were allowed to head off into the wilds.”
“Now they sure didn’t count the dead, ‘cause there were just too many; the number of them was a sight to behold, right on both sides, Nephites and Lamanites alike.”
“And it came to pass that they tossed their dead into the Sidon waters, where they sank down to the depths of the sea.”
“And the Nephite army, or Moroni’s bunch, returned home to their places and lands.”
“And thus ended the eighteenth year of the judges ruling over the Nephi folks. And that’s where the record of Alma wraps up, all written down on the Nephi plates.”
