Well now, gather 'round, folks, 'cause here's the tale of the Nephites and their tussles and squabbles, back in the days of ol' Helaman, as he scribbled it all down.
Comin' from them chapters up to sixty-two.
Helaman was feelin' mighty good 'bout what Alma had to say—Alma foresaw the downfall of the Nephites—He blessed the land but warned it could be cursed too—Alma might have been swept up by the Spirit, just like Moses—And the folks in the Church were startin' to stir the pot. 'Round the year 73 B.C.
Well now, it sure as shootin' came to pass that the Nephites were hopin' high in the saddle, 'cause the Good Lord had pulled 'em outta the clutches of their foes again; so they tipped their hats and gave thanks to God; you bet they fasted and prayed and worshiped with a heap of joy.
Then in the nineteenth year of the judges’ reign over the Nephites, Alma rode up to his boy Helaman and asked him: Do ya reckon you believe the words I told ya ‘bout them records we’ve been keepin’?
And Helaman replied: Sure ‘nuff, I believe.
Then Alma said again: Do ya have faith in Jesus Christ, the one who's gonna come?
And Helaman said: You betcha, I believe all the things you’ve laid down.
Then Alma asked him once more: Will ya stick to my commandments?
And Helaman replied: You can count on it, I’ll keep your commandments with all my heart.
So then Alma said: You’re a blessed little rascal; and the Lord’s gonna see ya through in this here land.
But hold your horses, ‘cause I got a prophecy for ya; but keep it under your hat until it all comes to pass; so jot down what I’m fixin’ to tell ya.
And these are the words: Listen here, I can tell that this very bunch, them Nephites, with the spirit of revelation in me, in four hundred years after Jesus Christ shows up, they’re gonna start makin’ themselves scarce, and drift off in doubt.
Yep, and then they'll be sittin' in the middle of wars and diseases, famines and bloodshed, ‘til the folks of Nephi just fade away—
Yep, 'cause they'll choose to live in doubt and wallow in darkness, wickedness, and all kinds of sins; I’m tellin’ ya, ‘cause they sin against so much light and knowledge, I say it, by the fourth generation they won’t all be around before this big ol’ mess comes.
And when that day rolls in, mark my words, it won’t be long before them who’re sittin' on the fence now, or their kinfolk, won’t be counted among the Nephites no more.
But whoever makes it through that great and terrible day, won’t find themselves among the Nephites, but they'll be counted as Lamanites, and turn into somethin’ like 'em, ‘cept for a few who’ll be called the disciples of the Lord; and those folks, the Lamanites will chase until there ain't none left. And now, ‘cause of all the wrongdoings, this prophecy's gonna come true.
And sure as shootin', after Alma said all this to Helaman, he blessed him and his other boys; and he also blessed the land for the righteous folks.
And he said: This is what the Lord says—Cursed be this land, yes sir, this land, for any nation, tribe, tongue, and folks that act wicked when their time’s ripe for it; and just like I’m sayin', that’s how it’ll be; 'cause this is the curse and blessing of God upon the land, for the Lord can’t stand to look at sin not even a smidge.
And after Alma wrapped it all up with those words, he blessed the church, all them who stood firm in their faith from then on out.
And once Alma did all that, off he went from Zarahemla, seemin’ to head to the land of Melek. And it seems he was never heard from again; we ain't got a lick of knowledge of his death or burial.
Well, we do know this much, that he was a right righteous man; and word spread through the church that he was taken up by the Spirit, or laid to rest by the hand of the Lord, just like Moses. But, lo and behold, the good book says God took Moses up to Himself; and we reckon Alma was likely taken too, so we got no idea ‘bout his death or burial.
And as luck would have it, in the start of the nineteenth year of the judges' reign over Nephi, Helaman hit the trail to preach the word to the folks.
‘Cause of all their scrapes with the Lamanites and the little squabbles and ruckus among ‘em, it was high time to get the word of God spreadin’ and set things straight in the church.
So, Helaman and his brothers rode out to get the church back on its feet all across the land, yeah, in every town that was taken up by the Nephites. And it came to pass that they appointed priests and teachers in every corner of the land, over all the churches.
Now, it also happened that after Helaman and his brothers appointed the priests and teachers, a fuss broke out among ‘em, and they wouldn’t lend an ear to what Helaman and his brothers had to share;
But they got all puffed up, lookin’ down their noses because of their big ol’ pile of riches, so they thought they were somethin’ special, not listenin’ to nobody about how to live right before God.
