Well now, it so happened that all them folks who wouldn't listen to Helaman and his kin got themselves all riled up, gatherin' together against their own folk.
And let me tell ya, they were hotter than a campfire in July, so set on takin' their brothers down.
The big feller leadin' the charge was a hefty, strong cowboy, known as Amalickiah.
This Amalickiah was itchin' to claim the crown, and all them folks who were upset were just as keen for him to wear the crown, 'specially them lower judges it seemed, lookin' for a hefty slice of power.
They got sweet-talked by Amalickiah, who promised that if they backed him to be king, he'd let ‘em be the big shots over the rest.
So they got led astray by Amalickiah into all sorts of squabblin', despite Helaman and his friends preachin' peace, 'cause they were high priests keepin' watch over the church.
There were plenty in the church who fell for Amalickiah's honeyed words, so they parted ways with the church, makin' things mighty tricky and dangerous for the Nephites, even after their grand victory against the Lamanites and all the hootin' and hollerin' that followed.
This just goes to show how fast folks forget their Creator, always quick to go astray and let the devil take the reins.
And lo and behold, it ain't hard to see how just one bad apple can stir up a heap of trouble among the good folks.
Yessiree, we see that Amalickiah, with his sly tricks and sweet talk, led many astray into doing wrong; lookin' to tear down the church of God and stomp all over the freedom given to them, blessings God sent down for all the righteous folks.
Now it came to pass that Moroni, the chief commander of the Nephite forces, got wind of these squabbles and felt a powerful anger towards Amalickiah.
So, he ripped his coat right off his back, took a piece of it, and scrawled on it—In memory of our God, our religion, and freedom, and our peace, our wives, and our little ones—and he tied it up at the end of a pole.
He strapped on his helmet, armored up with a breastplate and a shield, and girded his loins for battle; he took the pole with his ripped coat (which he called the title of liberty) and hit the ground, prayin' like a true believer for God's blessings of liberty to land upon his folks, as long as they'd stick around with the Christians on the land—
For that's what those who didn't belong to the church called all the true believers in Christ.
And them folks who were church members stood true; yeah, every last one of ‘em who truly believed in Christ wore the name of Christ, or 'Christians' as they were dubbed, all 'cause of their faith in the Savior to come.
So at this moment, Moroni sought that God would smile on the cause of the Christians and the freedom of the land.
When he laid his heart bare before God, he claimed all land south of the land called Desolation, and all the land, north and south—A chosen land, the land of liberty.
He declared: Surely God won't stand by and let us, who get looked down on for wearin' the name of Christ, be trampled and wiped out, unless we bring it upon ourselves through our own misdeeds.
And once Moroni got them words out, he started movin' among the folks, brandishin' the ripped part of his coat for all to see the words he had written, and hollerin' at the top of his lungs:
Look here, who wants to keep this title upon our land, step forward in the strength of the Lord, and make a vow to stand for their rights and their religion, so that the Lord God will bless 'em.
As soon as Moroni called out these words, the people came runnin' with their armor strapped on tight, rippin' their clothes as a show of promise, that they wouldn’t abandon the Lord their God; or, in simpler terms, if they were to stray from God’s commands, and be too shy to wear the name of Christ, then the Lord should rend them just like they're rippin' their own garments.
Now this was the pledge they made, throwin' their garments at Moroni's feet, sayin': We promise our God that we’ll face destruction like our brothers up north if we slip up; if we do wrong, we may find ourselves at the mercy of our enemies, as we have laid our garments at your feet for 'em to trample.
Moroni told 'em: Look here, we're a remnant from the line of Jacob; a remnant from Joseph, whose coat got shredded by his brothers; let's remember to keep God's commands, or we’ll find ourselves in pieces just like our garments, locked up, sold off, or worse.
Yep, let’s hold on to our liberty like a remnant of Joseph; let’s keep Jacob’s words close to our hearts; 'cause his vision showed that some of Joseph's coat was kept safe from decay. And he said—Just as this piece of my boy’s garment has been saved, so too shall a remnant of my Son’s seed be saved by God's hand, while the rest of Joseph’s line will fade away, just like that torn coat.
Now look, that thought weighs heavy on my heart; yet still, I find joy in my son, ‘cause part of his line will go back to God.
Now mind you, that was what Jacob said.
And who’s to say that the folks from Joseph's line, who might vanish like his coat, aren't those who've turned away from us? Yep, and we might share their fate if we don't hold tight to our faith in Christ.
And it came to pass that when Moroni said these words, he moved on out and sent word through all them parts where the squabblin’ was happening, gatherin’ all the folks who wanted to protect their liberty to stand against Amalickiah and his dissidents, called Amalickiahites.
Then, when Amalickiah noticed that Moroni's crew had the numbers—plus he saw his own folks waverin' about the rightness of their cause—he got a little jittery and took off with those who’d follow him into the land of Nephi.
Moroni figured it wasn't wise for the Lamanites to gather any more strength; thus, he planned to cut off Amalickiah’s gang or even reel 'em in and put an end to Amalickiah; 'cause he knew that fella would rile up the Lamanites, gettin' them stirred to attack, and ole Amalickiah was wily enough to see it through to his own gain.
So Moroni decided it was wise to gather his crew, who'd armed themselves and had sworn an oath to keep peace—and before you knew it, he led his army camping out into the wilderness to intercept Amalickiah’s band.
And it came to pass that he did just as he set out, movin’ through the wilds and facing the forces of Amalickiah.
Well, Amalickiah took off with a handful of his men, while the rest got delivered right into Moroni's hands, and were taken back to the land of Zarahemla.
Now, Moroni was a fella chosen by the head judges and the voice of the people, so he had the power to command the Nephite armies, to set rules and enforce authority over 'em.
Once it got to a point where the Amalickiahites wouldn't pledge to support the cause of freedom and stand for a free government, he ordered them to meet their fate; and there were scarce few who turned down the covenant of freedom.
Moroni also made sure that the title of liberty was raised high on every tower in the lands held by the Nephites; and thus, he planted the flag of liberty among his people.
They started to calm down again in the land; and they maintained peace until near the close of the nineteenth year of the reign of judges.
And Helaman and the high priests kept the order in the church; yep, for four years there was a whole lotta peace and rejoicin' in the church.
There were many who passed on, firmly holdin’ onto the belief that the Lord Jesus Christ had redeemed their souls; hence, they left this world with joy.
Some folks went on with fevers, which popped up now and again in the seasons; still, it wasn't so bad, 'cause of the bounty of plants and roots God provided to help cure ailments tied to the climate—
But many passed due to old age; those who left in the faith of Christ found happiness with Him, as we might rightly guess.
