Well now, let me spin ya a yarn 'bout Amalickiah and them folks who skedaddled off into the wilds. He rounded up his pals and hightailed it to the land of Nephi, stirrin' up them Lamanites like a hornet’s nest, gettin’ ‘em all riled up against the Nephites. Next thing ya know, the king of the Lamanites was sendin’ out a call for everyone to gather round and saddle up for a showdown with the Nephites.
When news of that proclamation hit 'em, you bet they were quakin’ in their boots. They didn't wanna cross the king nor did they wanna march into battle ‘gainst the Nephites for fear of losing their own skins. Most of ‘em just decided it wasn't worth it and ignored the king’s orders.
That made the king hotter than a hen in a hornet's nest ‘cause they weren't listenin’. So he put Amalickiah in charge of them soldiers who were still loyal, telling him to whip ‘em into shape and get ‘em ready for fightin’.
Well, let me tell ya, that was just what Amalickiah wanted. Being a slippery sort, he cooked up a scheme to take the king’s crown for himself.
Now he had a handful of Lamanites who were still on the king’s side and he figured out a plan to win over the ones who weren't so keen on listenin’. He headed out to a place called Onidah where all the Lamanites had run off to, thinkin’ the king’s army was comin’ to bust some heads, so they took off to arm themselves.
They even found themselves a fellow to lead ‘em, resolute and determined not to be pushed around by the Nephites.
Once they gathered on a mountain named Antipas, they were gettin' ready for a scrap.
But Amalickiah wasn’t lookin’ to tussle the way the king wanted. Naw, he aimed to win over the Lamanite armies, put himself in charge, bump the king off, and grab that throne for himself.
So, there he went pitching his tents down in the valley next to Mount Antipas.
Later that night, he sent a covert message to the mountain, lookin’ to have a word with their leader, a fella named Lehonti, askin’ him to come on down.
But when Lehonti got the word, he wasn’t too keen on takin' that trip down the mountain. Amalickiah tried again and again, and Lehonti stood his ground.
When Amalickiah saw he wasn’t makin’ much headway, he hiked up to Lehonti’s turf and asked him to come down again, even askin’ him to bring his guards.
When Lehonti finally came down with his posse, Amalickiah told him to gather up his men at night and sneak around them Lamanites who were loyal to the king. He promised he’d hand ‘em right over to Lehonti if he’d make him his second-in-command.
So Lehonti led his crew down and surrounded Amalickiah’s folks, catchin’ ‘em dozin’ off before the rooster crowed.
Once those Lamanites figured they were fenced in, they begged Amalickiah to let ‘em join their brothers so they wouldn’t be wiped out. This was just what Amalickiah wanted.
He handed over his men, goin’ against the king's orders, just like he planned to get what he needed to dethrone the king.
Now, it was the tradition among the Lamanites that if the head honcho got himself killed, the second in command would take the reins.
Amalickiah had one of his minions dose Lehonti slow-like with poison till he kicked the bucket.
When Lehonti bit the dust, the Lamanites named Amalickiah as their chief and leader.
And off he marched with his troops, finally gettin' what he wanted, straight to the land of Nephi, right into the chief city.
When the king spotted him comin’, he stepped out to meet him with his guards, thinkin’ Amalickiah had done his duty and gathered up a mighty army to take on the Nephites.
But when the king approached, Amalickiah had his servants go out to greet the king, bowin’ low as if payin’ him the respect he thought he deserved.
The king reached out to help 'em up, that bein’ Lamanite custom, picked up the first one, and bam! Amalickiah plunged a knife right into the king’s chest, and down he went.
The king’s servants took off runnin’, and Amalickiah’s folks raised a ruckus shoutin’:
“Look out! The king’s been stabbed by his own men, and he’s fallen while they hightailed it away; come on and see!”
Then Amalickiah ordered his army to march on over and see what had happened to the king. When they arrived and found him bleeding out, Amalickiah feigned fury and hollered: “Whoever loved the king, get out there and chase down those cowards who done this!”
And like a pack of hungry wolves, those who loved the king charged after his runaway servants.
But when the fleeing servants caught wind of their pursuers, they got spooked and dashed off into the wild, landin’ in Zarahemla and takin’ up with the folks of Ammon.
Meanwhile, the army that had been chasin’ them came back empty-handed, and through his trickery, Amalickiah had wormed his way into the hearts of the people.
The very next day, he strutted into city Nephi with his forces and claimed the city.
Now, as fate would have it, when the queen learned her husband had met his end, 'cause Amalickiah had sent a messenger to spill the beans, sayin’ the king got himself stabbed by his own men and that he’d gone after 'em but came back empty-handed—
So when the queen caught wind of this, she sent word to Amalickiah, askin’ him to spare her city folks, requestin’ he come visit her, and she wanted him to bring some witnesses to confirm the king was dead.
Amalickiah brought along the same snake who done in the king and a couple of his partners, marchin’ right into the queen’s presence, each one testifyin’ that the king had been taken out by his own crew and that they had fled like the wind. And they made a case that sure looked like evidence against those fellas. This took care of the queen’s worries about the king’s sudden demise.
With that, Amalickiah set his sights on charm’n the queen, took her as his wife, and with his deceit and help from his sly cronies, he snagged the crown, gettin’ himself named king all over the land, with all them Lamanites rallyin’ ‘round him – you know, the Lamanites, the Lemuelites, the Ishmaelites, and all them Nephite turncoats from Nephi’s reign right on up to the here and now.
Now, these dissenters had the same smarts and lessons as them Nephites, and they’d been taught the same word of the Lord. But wouldn’t ya know it, not long after they turned their backs, they got meaner than a rattlesnake, acting wilder, recklessly wicked, and downright ferocious, mixin’ their ways with Lamanite traditions; they grew lazy and gave in to all sorts of sinful ways, completely forgettin’ the Lord their God.
