Amalickiah stirs up trouble with the Lamanites against the good folks of Nephi—Moroni gets his crew ready to stand up for the Lord’s cause—He’s mighty glad for liberty and freedom, a true man of God. About 72 B.C.
Well, it happened that as soon as Amalickiah grabbed hold of the crown, he started gettin’ the Lamanites all riled up against the Nephites; sure enough, he appointed fellas to holler at the Lamanites from their towers, spoutin’ off against the Nephites.
And thus he fired up their tempers 'gainst the Nephites, so much so that by the end of the nineteenth year of the judges’ rule, with his plans workin’ just fine and bein’ crowned king over the Lamanites, he set his sights on takin’ over the whole shebang, every last soul in the land—the Nephites and the Lamanites alike.
So, he had it all figured out, seein’ he’d hardened the Lamanites’ hearts and blinded their eyes, stirrin’ 'em up to rage, gatherin’ a whole heap of folks to challenge the Nephites in battle.
He was dead set on using his big crowd to take down the Nephites and drag 'em into servitude.
So, he picked out the top dogs from the Zoramites, folks who knew the Nephites’ strengths, their hangouts, and the weak spots in their towns; hence he made 'em the chief captains over his armies.
Then they packed up their camp and headed out toward Zarahemla in the wilds.
Now while Amalickiah was busy schemin’ and trickin’ folks into givin’ him power, Moroni was on the flip side, gettin’ the townsfolk ready to stay true to the Lord their God.
Yep, he was beefin’ up the Nephite armies, throwin’ up small forts or restin’ places; raisin’ earthworks 'round to keep his soldiers tucked in tight, and buildin’ stone walls to protect 'em all 'round their towns and lands; that’s right, all 'round the territory.
And where their defenses were weakest, he put the bulk of his folks; that’s how he fortified and toughened up the land the Nephites called home.
He was gettin’ ready to back up their freedom, their lands, their families, and their peace, so they could live for the Lord their God and keep what their enemies called the cause of Christians.
And Moroni was a strong and mighty fella; had a keen mind, didn’t fancy spillin’ blood none; a man whose heart swelled with joy for the freedom of his land and his kin, keepin’ 'em safe from bondage.
His heart was full of gratitude to God for all the goodies and blessings bestowed on his people; he worked himself to the bone for the well-being and safety of his folks.
Yes sir, he was firm in his faith in Christ, and he’d sworn an oath to defend his people, their rights, their country, and their religion, even to the point of spillin' his own blood.
The Nephites were taught to defend themselves against their foes, even if it meant takin’ a life; and they were also schooled never to offend a soul, nor to raise their swords 'cept against their enemies, only to keep their lives intact.
And this here was their faith, that by actin’ this way, God would bless 'em in the land, or in other words, if they stayed true to the commandments of God, He’d make 'em flourish where they were; yep, even warnin’ 'em to skedaddle or prep for a fight when trouble was afoot.
Also, God would guide 'em on where to go to defend against their enemies, and by followin’ this, the Lord would save 'em; this was the faith of Moroni, and he took pride in it; not in bloodshed but in doin’ good, protectin’ his folks, stayin’ true to God’s ways, and fightin’ back against wrongdoing.
I tell ya, if all men had been, was, and ever would be like Moroni, just think—the very fires of hell woulda been shaken to the core; the devil wouldn’t stand a chance over the hearts of mankind.
Look here, he was a man like Ammon, son of Mosiah, along with the other Mosiah boys, and Alma and his sons, all of 'em men of God.
Now, Helaman and his brothers were just as helpful to the folks as Moroni was; they were preachin’ God’s word and baptizin’ any who’d listen to 'em, leadin’ folks to repentance.
So they set out, and the people humbled themselves 'cause of their preachin’, and the Lord blessed 'em, keepin’ 'em free from war and squabbles amongst 'em for a full four years.
But as I’ve said, near the end of the nineteenth year, even with their peace, they were reluctantly forced to tussle with their brothers, the Lamanites.
Yup, for years on end, their wars with the Lamanites didn’t stop, no matter how much they didn’t wanna fight.
They were sorrowful to take arms against the Lamanites, seein’ as they didn’t take pleasure in spillin’ blood; and that ain’t all—they were real sorry to be the reason so many of their kin were sent into eternity unprepared to meet their Maker.
But they just couldn’t sit idly by, lettin’ their wives and children be butchered by the cruel hands of those who once were their brothers, who’d turned their backs on their faith and gone to destroy 'em by joinin’ the Lamanites.
No sir, they couldn’t handle the thought of their brethren revelin’ in the blood of the Nephites, as long as there were any left who’d keep God’s commandments, for the promise of the Lord was, if they’d keep His ways, they'd prosper in the land.
