Well now, here’s how it all went down in the wild west way. 
So, in the eleventh month of the nineteenth year, on the tenth day, the Lamanite rustlers were spotted riding toward Ammonihah's town.
Now, that city had been put back together again, and Moroni had his troops camped at the city’s edge, throwin' up dirt mounds to keep them safe from the stones and arrows those Lamanites were flingin’. Them fellas sure did love their rocks and arrows.
I reckon I mentioned that Ammonihah was fixin' to stand tall again. I’m tellin’ ya, it was partially mended; after those Lamanites had stomped it flat once ’cause folks were up to no good, they figured they could waltz in again all easy-like.
But boy, oh boy, were they in for a shock! The Nephites had dug up a high ridge all around, so those pesky Lamanites couldn't hurl their stones or arrows and land a hit, nor could they sneak in ‘cept for the main way.
At this point, the top dogs of the Lamanites were mighty surprised 'cause the Nephites showed some clever thinking in settin’ up their defenses.
The Lamanite bosses thought, what with their big ol’ numbers, they could just stomp in like they did before; they had their shields and breastplates, real fancy stuff, and thick hides to keep their hidey-holes covered.
And with all that gear, they thought they'd bust through and make the Nephites their slaves, or just wipe 'em out like they was nothing.
But lo and behold, much to their shock, the Nephites were ready for 'em, in a way they’d never seen before from the clan of Lehi. They had gotten all geared up for a tussle just like Moroni told ‘em to.
And sure enough, the Lamanites, or them Amalickiahites, were taken aback by the way the Nephites were prepped for a showdown.
Now, if King Amalickiah had just sauntered down from Nephi with his whole gang, maybe he coulda riled the Lamanites to attack those Nephites at Ammonihah; after all, he didn’t care much about his own crew's blood.
But lo, Amalickiah didn't come down to fight himself. And his chief lieutenants didn’t have the gumption to take on the Nephites at Ammonihah, ‘cause Moroni had flipped the script on how they handled their fightin’, leaving the Lamanites flat-footed on their getaway paths.
So they turned tail into the sagebrush and packed their bags for the land of Noah, thinkin’ that might be a soft spot to hit the Nephites next.
They were clueless that Moroni had bolstered each and every town around with solid fortifications; that's why they marched on to Noah all set in their minds, and their top dogs swore an oath to take out the folks there.
But surprise, surprise, that town of Noah, which used to be a pushover, thanks to Moroni, was now a fortress, stronger even than Ammonihah.
Now, that was some clever thinking on Moroni’s part! He figured those Lamanites would tremble at the sight of Ammonihah, and since Noah had been the weakest, they'd come charging there to battle; and it all played out just like he wanted.
And looky here, Moroni had put Lehi in charge of that town; same Lehi who had gone toe-to-toe with the Lamanites down by the river Sidon.
And when the Lamanites caught wind that Lehi was in charge, they were durn skittish, but their top fellas had made a promise to attack the town, so they rallied their forces.
Now, those Lamanites figured they could break into the Nephite fort in a different spot, but there wasn’t no way to get in ‘cept through the main gate, thanks to them high walls piled up and the deep ditch dug around.
So the Nephites were mighty ready to send back any fool who tried to climb up their walls some other way, launchin' stones and arrows at ‘em.
That meant they had their strongest hands on deck, swords and slings ready to whittle down anyone tryin’ to waltz into their stronghold through that entrance; they were set to defend themselves from the Lamanites.
And it happened that the captains of the Lamanites brought their folks front and center to storm the entrance, but they kept gettin’ pushed back, sufferin' a heap of losses.
When they realized they couldn't bust in through the pass, they started diggin’ away at the earthworks to gain a pathway for their troops to get an equal shot at a fight; but, lo and behold, they were sent flying by them stones and arrows coming at ‘em; instead of filling up their ditches, they ended up stackin' up their dead and wounded in there.
Thus, the Nephites held all the cards against them foes; the Lamanites kept tryin' to wipe them out ‘til all their top dogs were sent to meet their maker; over a thousand Lamanites dropped, while not a single Nephite got taken down.
They had about fifty who got nicked, caught up in the Lamanites’ arrows from across the pass, but they were well-protected by their shields and breastplates, with wounds mostly on their legs, some really rough.
When the Lamanites spotted their leaders were all snuffed out, they skedaddled into the wide open spaces. And they returned to the land of Nephi to spill the beans to King Amalickiah, a Nephite himself, about their hefty losses.
Now, King Amalickiah was hopping mad at his folks ‘cause he couldn't get the upper hand over the Nephites; he hadn't put ‘em in chains.
He was furious, cussed up a storm at God and Moroni, swearing he’d spill Moroni’s blood; all ‘cause Moroni had followed the good word from the Almighty in lookin' out for his folks.
Meanwhile, the Nephi folks were givin’ thanks to their Lord for his unmatched might in saving them from their enemies.
And that’s how the nineteenth year of the judges' reign over Nephite folks came to a close.
Yep, there was peace among ‘em all rampin' up, and a heap of good fortune in the church, 'cause they kept their noses clean and paid heed to the word of God, shared by Helaman and Shiblon and Corianton, and Ammon and his pals, all those who’d been given the holy go-ahead after bein’ dunked and sent out to share the good word with the folks around.
