Well now, listen up partner, here are the words Alma, that High Priest, rustled up for the folks out in their towns and homesteads across the whole territory.
Now, let’s kick it off with chapter 5.
To hit the trail to salvation, folks gotta turn over a new leaf and stick to the good ol’ rules; they need to be reborn, wash their clothes clean with the blood of Christ, stay humble, ditch the pride and envy, and do righteous deeds—The Good Shepherd hollers for His herd—Those who do bad deeds are the devil's young'uns—Alma stands firm in his teachings and urges folks to change their ways—The names of the good folks is scribbled in the book of life. Around 83 B.C.
So it came to pass that Alma kicked things off by sharing the Good Word with the folks, first in the land of Zarahemla, and from there spreadin' it all across the land.
And here’s what he laid down before the congregation in the church that was set up in Zarahemla, as he’s keepin' track of it himself, sayin':
I, Alma, bein' set apart by my pa, Alma, to be a high priest servin' the church of God, havin' the power and authority from on high to do these things, listen close, I say to ya that he started a church in the land way out on the edges of Nephi; yep, in the land called Mormon; and he baptized his kinfolk in the waters of Mormon.
And looky here, I tell ya, they got away from king Noah’s crowd, thanks to the mercy and might of God.
And then, hot on the heels of that, they got shackled by the Lamanites in the wild; yep, I reckon they were in a tight spot, and once again, the Lord pulled 'em outta that situation by the power of his word; and we came to this land, and right here we started settlin' the church of God all over again.
Now listen here, I ask ya, my good brethren of the church, have you remembered just how your forefathers were held captive? Yep, and have you kept in mind how merciful and patient the Lord was with them? Furthermore, have you held onto that thought that He delivered their souls from the depths?
See here, He changed their hearts; woke 'em up like a rooster at daybreak, and they opened their eyes to God. They were stuck in darkness; but their souls found light from the everlasting Word; they were tied up tight with death's rope, and hell's chains were all around 'em, waitin' to swallow 'em whole.
Now I ask you, brethren, did they meet their end? I tell ya, No, they didn’t.
And again I ask, were those death bands broken, and the hell chains that had 'em all bound, were they let loose? I tell ya, Yep, they were freed, and their souls expanded like a prairie sky, singin’ songs of redeeming love. And I assure you they are saved.
Now I ask ya, what kinda conditions led to their salvation? Yep, what hope did they have to expect salvation? What caused them to break free from death’s chains, and also from hell’s grip?
Listen, let me tell ya—didn’t my dad Alma trust the words that Abinadi laid down? And wasn’t he a holy prophet? Didn’t he speak the words of God, and my dad believed ‘em?
And because of his faith, a mighty change took place in his heart. I tell ya it’s all true.
And he preached that Word to your fathers, and they too had a mighty change in their hearts, humbling themselves and puttin’ their trust in the living God. And looky here, they hung on tight till the end; that’s why they were saved.
Now I’m askin’ you, church folks, have ya been reborn of God? Has His image been put upon your faces? Have you felt that mighty change in your hearts?
Do you put your faith in that Redeemer who made ya? Do you look ahead with faith in your eye, picturin' this mortal body raised up in glory, and this corruption made pure, standin' before God to be judged on the deeds done in this life?
I ask you, can you picture hearin’ the Lord sayin’ on that day: Come here, ye blessed ones, for your works have been righteous on this earth?
Or do you think you can fool the Lord that day, claimin’—Lord, our works have been good, and that He’ll save ya?
Or think about this, can you reckon with standin' before God's judgment with your souls heavy with guilt and regret, rememberin’ all your wrongs, a clear memory of all the mischief, knowin’ you’ve thumbed your nose at God’s commandments?
I ask ya, can ya look up to Him that day with a pure heart and clean hands? Can you look up with God’s image marked on your faces?
I tell ya, can ya dream of bein' saved when you’ve gone and let the devil lead ya around?
I say, you’ll know that day that you ain’t gonna be saved; ‘cause no man can be saved unless he’s got them duds washed clean; yep, his clothing has gotta be purified, washed whiter than snow, through the blood of Him we’ve been told about, who’s comin’ to save folks from their sins.
And now I ask ya, brethren, how do you reckon you’ll feel standin’ before God’s bar, with your clothes stained with blood and filth? Just think what these things will testify against you!
Ain’t they gonna call you murderers and guilty of all kinds of wickedness?
Now, my brethren, you think someone like that can sit down with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, and all the holy prophets, whose clothes are clean and pure?
I tell ya, No, unless you make our Creator a liar from the get-go, or think He’s been lying since the start, you can’t reckon someone like that can belong in heaven; instead, they’ll be tossed out ‘cause they're kin to the devil’s gang.
And now, brethren, if you’ve had a change of heart, and if you’ve felt like singin’ songs of redeeming love, I wonder, can ya feel that way now?
Have you been walkin’ straight, keepin' yourselves blameless before God? If your number was up today, could you say to yourself that you've been humble enough? That your clothes have become clean and white through the blood of Christ, who’ll come to redeem folks from their sins?
Now, are y’all stripped of pride? I tell ya, if you ain’t, you ain’t ready to meet God. Get ready quick, ‘cause heaven’s just around the corner, and folks like that ain’t got eternal life.
Now, I ask ya, is there anyone among ya not stripped of envy? If there is, you ain’t ready; and I’d sure hope you prepare fast, ‘cause the hour is nigh, and you ain’t got a clue when the time will come; folks like that won’t be found guiltless.
And again, I ask ya, is there anyone among you who makes fun of his brother, or heaps up troubles on him?
Woe unto such a one, for he ain’t ready, and the time’s here he better repent or he won’t be saved!
Yep, woe unto all you rascals doin’ wrong; turn from your wicked ways; the Lord God’s called for it!
Look here, He’s throwin’ an invitation to everyone, with arms of mercy wide open, and He says: Repent, and I’ll take ya in.
Yep, He says: Come to Me and you’ll taste the fruit of the tree of life; you’ll eat and drink freely from the bread and waters of life;
Y’all come to Me and put your hands to righteous works, and you won’t be cut down and tossed into the fire—
For the time’s at hand that whoever doesn’t bear good fruit, or whoever doesn’t do righteous deeds, will find themselves in mighty trouble.
Oh you wrongdoers; you who are puffed up in the empty things of this world, you who claim to know the path of righteousness yet gone astray, like sheep without a shepherd, even when the shepherd's callin’ out after you, but you just won’t listen!
Look here, I tell ya, the Good Shepherd is callin’ you; yep, in His own name, which is Christ; and if you won’t listen to the Good Shepherd’s voice, to the name you’re called by, you ain’t part of His flock.
And if you ain't one of His sheep, whose flock are ya? I say unto you, the devil's your shepherd, and you’re in his fold; and now, who can deny that? Anyone who says otherwise is a liar and the devil's child.
For I say unto ya, everything good comes from God, and everything bad comes from the devil.
So if a man brings forth good works, he’s listenin’ to the Good Shepherd's voice, and he follows Him; but whoever does evil, that one becomes a child of the devil, for he’s listenin’ to the devil’s voice and follows him.
And whoever does that will have to face the wages from him; so his payment will be death, as far as righteousness goes, bein' dead to all good works.
Now, my brethren, I’d sure like for you to listen to me, for I’m speakin’ with all my heart; I’ve made it plain so you can’t miss it, and I’m talkin’ according to God’s commandments.
For I’ve been called to speak like this, according to the holy order of God that’s in Christ Jesus; yep, I’m commanded to stand and testify to this crowd about what our fathers said regarding what’s comin’ down the line.
And that ain’t all. Don’t you reckon I know of these things myself? Look here, I testify to ya that I know what I’ve been talkin’ ‘bout is true. And how do ya think I know for sure?
Well, I got it confirmed by the Holy Spirit of God. I’ve fasted and prayed many days, lookin’ to know this for myself. And now I do know it’s true; the Lord God’s revealed it to me by His Holy Spirit; and this is that spirit of revelation that’s in me.
And furthermore, I can tell ya that it’s been made known to me that the words our fathers said are true, and that’s through the spirit of prophecy that’s in me, which comes through the Spirit of God.
I tell ya, I know for myself that whatever I say to ya, concerning what’s comin’, is true; and I know that Jesus Christ will show up, yep, the Son, the Only Begotten of the Father, full of grace, mercy, and truth. Look, it’s Him who’ll take away the sins of the world, that’s right, the sins of anyone who steadfastly believes in His name.
And now I tell ya this is the order I’m called to, to preach to my beloved brethren, and to everyone livin' in this land; yep, to preach to all, old and young, bonded or free; I’m talkin' to the aged, the middle-aged, and the up-and-comers; I’m callin’ out to ‘em that they must repent and be born again.
Yep, thus says the Spirit: Repent, all you folks at the ends of the earth, ‘cause the kingdom of heaven is right around the bend; yep, the Son of God is comin’ in His glory, might, majesty, power, and dominion. My beloved brethren, I’m sayin’ that the Spirit declares: Look upon the glory of the King of all the earth; and notice how the King of heaven will soon shine bright among all the children of men.
And the Spirit keeps sayin’ to me, yes, it’s cryin’ out with a mighty voice: Go forth and tell these folks—Repent, for if you don’t repent, you can’t inherit the kingdom of heaven.
Again I tell ya, the Spirit says: Look, the axe is laid at the root of the tree; so every tree that don’t bear good fruit will be chopped down and thrown into the fire, a fire that can’t be put out, even an everlasting fire. Remember this, the Holy One has declared it.
And now my beloved brethren, can you put up with these words? Can you shake off these thoughts, and stomp the Holy One underfoot? Can you be puffed up with pride in your hearts? Will you still insist on wearin’ fancy clothes and set your hearts on the empty things of this world, on your riches?
Will you keep thinkin’ you’re better’n one another; will you keep pickin’ on your brethren who are humble, and walkin’ the holy paths of God, that led them into this church, bein’ set apart by the Holy Spirit, bringin’ forth good works meet for repentance—
And will you keep turnin’ your backs on the poor and needy, and holdin’ back your substance from ‘em?
Finally, all you who stick to your wrongdoings, I say to ya, these are the ones who’ll be chopped down and thrown into the fire unless you repent quick-like.
Now I tell ya, all you who want to heed the Good Shepherd’s call, come out from the wicked, keep yourselves separate, and don’t touch their unclean things; ‘cause their names will be erased, so the names of the wicked won’t be counted with the names of the righteous, and the word of God might come true, sayin': The names of the wicked won’t be mixed with the names of my people;
For the names of the righteous will be written in the book of life, and I’ll grant them an inheritance at my right hand. And now, brethren, what do you have to say against this? I tell ya, if you speak against it, it don’t matter, for the word of God’s gotta come true.
For what shepherd among ya with many sheep ain’t watchin’ over ‘em so the wolves don’t come and gobble up his herd? And look, if a wolf shows up, don’t he drive it out? Yep, and if he can, he’ll take care of it once and for all.
And now I tell ya, the Good Shepherd is callin’ you; if you’ll lend an ear to His voice, He’ll round you up into His fold, and you’ll be His sheep; and He commands you to keep them ravenous wolves outta your midst, so you won’t be destroyed.
And now I, Alma, command you in the words of the one who’s commanded me, to follow and do the things I’ve told you.
I’m speakin’ with the authority of someone who belongs to the church; and to those who ain’t part of the church, I’m tellin' you, come and get baptized unto repentance, so you too can partake of the fruit from the tree of life.
