Well now, it was the case that Moroni didn’t take a breather when it came to makin’ plans for a show down with them Lamanites; he got his folks to start diggin’ up mounds o’ dirt all ‘round the towns, right from the get-go of the twentieth year of them judges settlin’ things.
Up on top of them dirt heaps, he had ‘em buildin’ wooden structures, tall enough to reach a feller's head, all ‘round the towns.
Then he rightly had ‘em throw up a strong ol’ frame of pickets on them timber works all ‘round; them pickets were sturdy and high as a cowpoke’s hat.
He got him some lookout towers put up to keep an eye on those pickets, and they built safe spots on them towers so them stones and arrows from the Lamanites couldn’t do ‘em no harm.
They were set up to hurl stones from the top at anyone foolish enough to wander near the walls of the town.
That’s how Moroni fortified himself against the oncomin' foes, settin’ up strongholds around every single town out in the whole territory.
Before long, Moroni sent his troops out into the eastern wilds; sure enough they chased all the Lamanites hidin' out there back to their own territory, which lay south of Zarahemla.
The land of Nephi stretched in a straight line from the east sea clear out to the west.
So, once Moroni had cleared the Lamanites from the eastern wilds sittin’ north of their own claims, he told the folks in Zarahemla and the nearby areas to head out that way, all the way to the seaside, and stake their claim to that land.
He also stationed troops in the south, right at the edges of their landholdin's, and had ‘em build barricades to keep their folks safe from enemy hands.
So that’s how he got rid of all the Lamanite strongholds in the east wilds, and on the west side too, settlin' a line of defense between the Nephites and Lamanites, stretchin' from Zarahemla to Nephi, from the west sea runnin’ by the head of the river Sidon—the Nephites held all the northern land, right up to where Bountiful lay, as they saw fit.
And in that manner, Moroni and his growin' army, givin’ folks the comfort that came from their strong fortifications, sought to strip away the might of them Lamanites from their lands, makin’ sure they couldn't touch what belonged to them.
One day, the Nephites pulled together to lay the groundwork for a new town, callin’ it Moroni; it were right by the east sea, on the southern edge of Lamanite territory.
They also started buildin’ a new town ‘tween Moroni and Aaron, linkin' those two cities together, and they named that place Nephihah.
And in that same year, they kicked off buildin’ several towns up north, one in particular they laid claim to, callin’ it Lehi, right up by the seashore in the north.
And that wrapped up the twentieth year.
Now in these good times, the Nephites were livin’ pretty well at the start of the twenty-first year of those judges keepin’ order over ‘em.
They were doin’ real good, gettin’ wealthy as all get-out; yup, they grew and got mighty strong in their land.
And lo and behold, it just goes to show how merciful and just the Lord is in all His dealings, fulfilling all His words to the children of men; we see right now how His words are coming true, just like He told Lehi:
“Blessed are you and your kin, and they’ll be blessed as long as they keep my commandments; they'll prosper in the land. But keep in mind, if they don’t follow my commandments, they'll be cut off from the Lord's sight.”
And we see how them promises held true for the Nephites; it was their squabblin’ and bickerin’, the killin' and plunderin’, their worship of false gods, and other wickedness among ‘em that brought about their wars and ruin.
But those who stayed faithful to the Lord’s commandments always found deliverance, while thousands of their rotten brethren ended up in chains or met their end by the sword, or fell to doubt and mingled with the Lamanites.
But I reckon there never was a happier time ‘mongst the Nephites since Nephi's day than during Moroni’s reign, even right then in the twenty-first year of them judges.
Then came the twenty-second year of the judges, and it ended in peace too; as did the twenty-third year.
But as the twenty-fourth year of the judges kicked off, there was a ruckus brewin’ ‘mongst ‘em folks about the land of Lehi and Morianton, which bordered right by the coast.
See, the folks holdin’ onto Morianton claimed part of Lehi’s land, so a real feud ignited between them, to the point where the Morianton folks took up arms against their own kin, dead set on takin’ ‘em out.
But the folks in Lehi, realizing they were in the right, hightailed it on over to Moroni’s camp to seek help.
When Morianton, the leader of those troublemakers, caught wind that them Lehi folks had sought refuge with Moroni, fear struck ‘em at the thought of Moroni’s army descendin’ on ‘em.
So Morianton convinced his people they best skedaddle northward, where there were plenty of lakes and rivers and take up new settlin’s there.
And that might have gone off without a hitch—could’ve been a real sorry mess—but turns out Morianton was a man full of fire, and in a fit of rage, he laid into one of his handmaidens, roughing her up bad.
She took off and made her way to Moroni’s camp, spillin’ all the beans ‘bout what was goin' on and their plan to skedaddle up north.
Now, those folks kickin’ it in Bountiful, or really more like Moroni, were mighty worried they’d listen to Morianton and team up with him, which would surely spell trouble for the Nephites, posin’ a threat to their freedom.
So Moroni sent out a brigade with the camp to intercept the Morianton folks, to stop ‘em from makin’ their way up north.
They didn’t catch ‘em ‘til they got close to the land of Desolation, and there, they blocked ‘em off at a narrow pass leadin’ to the north, right by the sea, with water on the west and east side.
So it turned out that Moroni’s army, led by a man named Teancum, ran into Morianton's crowd; them Morianton folk were so stubborn, egged on by their leader’s wickedness and sweet talk, that they got into a spat, where Teancum took out Morianton, beatin’ his crew and takin’ ‘em prisoner, then brought ‘em back to the Moroni camp. That’s how the twenty-fourth year of the judges came to a close.
So them Morianton folks got rounded up, and once they promised to keep the peace, they were sent back to their land, and they found a way to make amends with the Lehi folk, settlin’ back into their homes.
And wouldn't you know, that year when peace came back to the Nephites, Nephihah, the second chief judge, passed away, havin’ done his duty in the judgment seat with all honesty before God.
But he had refused Alma the chance to take possession of the sacred records, which both Alma and his ancestors held dear; so Alma passed them onto his son, Helaman.
Now lookey here, it came to pass that Nephihah’s son was called up to fill his seat, taking on the role of chief judge and governor over the people, with an oath to deal justly, keep the peace, protect their freedoms, and grant ‘em their rights to worship the Lord their God, workin’ to uphold God’s cause all his days and seein’ that the wicked face justice for their crimes.
By now, that young buck’s name was Pahoran. And Pahoran took his father’s spot and kicked off his reign at the end of the twenty-fourth year, presiding over the Nephites.
