Well now, it so happened in the twenty-sixth year of them judges keepin' the peace over the Nephites, that when the Lamanites woke up one fine mornin' in the first month, they found ol' Amalickiah layin' cold and dead in his tent; and there was Teancum, all set for a ruckus right then and there.
As soon as the Lamanites laid eyes on this sight, they got mighty scared; they ditched their plans to head north and high-tailed it back to the town of Mulek, seekin' refuge behind their sturdy walls.
Then, it came to be that the brother of Amalickiah was made king over the people, and that there brother's name was Ammoron; so there you have it, king Ammoron takin' over the throne where his brother left off.
Now, he ordered his folks to hold onto them towns they'd grabbed, 'cause they didn't snag 'em without spillin' a whole heap of blood in the process.
Teancum noticed real quick that the Lamanites were bound and determined to hang onto their new digs and their land; seein' how many there were, he figured it wouldn't be smart to charge 'em head-on in their hideouts.
So he kept his crew around, actin' like they were gettin' ready for a fight; fact is, he was makin' good use of the time, throwin' up some walls and settin' up places to hunker down.
He stayed in that warlike state until Moroni sent a whole passel of folks to beef up his army.
And Moroni also sent word to him sayin' to keep hold of all the prisoners he caught; since the Lamanites had taken plenty themselves, he wanted to keep their captives as a bargaining chip.
The orders also came to fortify the land Bountiful and secure the narrow pass leadin' north, so the Lamanites didn't get a foothold to harass 'em from all sides.
Moroni also asked him real kindly to keep strong in that part of the land and look for every chance to give them Lamanites a good thrashin’, hopin' maybe they could reclaim some of those towns they lost; and to also shore up the towns nearby that hadn’t yet fallen into Lamanite hands.
He mentioned, too, he'd come see him, but lo and behold, the Lamanites were on his tail by the western sea, and since he was headin' against 'em, he had to hold off.
Now, the king Ammoron had skedaddled out of Zarahemla and told the queen the news 'bout his brother bein’ dead; he gathered up a big ol' posse and marched against the Nephites near the western sea.
He was doin' his darndest to keep the Nephites occupied, tryin' to draw some of their forces away while tellin’ his boys to keep an eye on the towns they'd taken, tryin' to push the Nephites outta their lands as much as they could muster, dependin' on how many folks they had.
So there were the Nephites in a real pickle at the close of the twenty-sixth year of them judges over the Nephites.
In the twenty-seventh year of them judges’ reign, Teancum, under Moroni’s orders—who had set up armies to protect the southern and western borders and started makin’ his way toward Bountiful to lend Teancum a hand in gettin’ back those lost towns—
Teancum got the go-ahead to mount an attack on the city of Mulek, hopin’ to win it back if he could.
The long and short of it is, Teancum got ready to assault the city of Mulek and marched his army out to confront the Lamanites; but he realized it was a no-go takin’ them on while they were holed up in their strongholds, so he scrapped his plan and headed back to Bountiful to wait for Moroni's reinforcements.
Sure enough, Moroni rolled in with his army right toward the end of the twenty-seventh year of them judges over the Nephites.
And at the start of the twenty-eighth year, Moroni, Teancum, and a heap of them chief captains gathered ‘round for a war council—decidin' how to get them Lamanites to come out and fight, or maybe trick ‘em into leavin’ their strongholds so they could gain the upper hand and snatch back the city of Mulek.
They sent some fine talkers to parley with the Lamanites camped by the city of Mulek, reachin’ out to their leader, Jacob, who just wouldn’t budge out onto the plains to face ‘em.
Moroni, seein' there wasn't much hope of settlin’ things fair-like, cooked up a plan to lure the Lamanites outta their hidey-holes.
So he had Teancum take a handful of men and move on down toward the seashore, while Moroni and his army, under cover of night, crept through the wilderness to the west of Mulek; and come dawn, when the Lamanite sentries spotted Teancum, they ran off to tell Jacob.
And lo and behold, the Lamanite forces marched out after Teancum, thinkin' their numbers'd be enough to overwhelm him, seein' as his band was so small. But Teancum, he saw ‘em comin' and started backpedalin' toward the shore, headin’ north.
When the Lamanites saw that Teancum was hightailin' it, they stiffened their spines and chased after 'im. While Teancum was leadin’ ‘em on a wild goose chase, Moroni gave the signal for a chunk of his army to charge right into the city and take it.
And that’s what they did, takin’ out anyone left to guard the place, shootin’ down all who wouldn’t throw down their arms.
And just like that, Moroni took back the city of Mulek with part of his crew, while he sent the rest out to intercept the Lamanites comin’ back from chasin’ Teancum.
Well, the Lamanites tracked Teancum until they neared Bountiful, only to run smack into Lehi and a small bunch of men who’d been left to protect Bountiful.
Now, when the top Lamanite captains laid eyes on Lehi and his crew, they took to flight, all flustered, worried they wouldn't grab the city of Mulek before Lehi caught up; they was tuckered out from their long march while Lehi's men were as fresh as daisies.
But the Lamanites had no inkling that Moroni was right behind 'em with his army; all they were concerned about was Lehi and his boys.
Lehi wasn’t too keen on rushin’ 'em till they came across Moroni and his fighters.
Just as the Lamanites were about to make a break for it, they found themselves completely surrounded by the Nephites, with Moroni’s men on one side and Lehi’s on the other; and they were all fresh and rarin' to go while the Lamanites were already wearied from runnin’.
Moroni gave the order for his bunch to charge ‘em until they surrendered their weapons.
Then along came Jacob, their leader, a Zoramite with fire in his belly, leading the Lamanites into battle with all the fury he could muster against Moroni.
Being in Moroni’s path, Jacob was bent on slayin’ ‘em and carving a path right on through to Mulek. But Moroni and his men were too strong; they didn’t yield to the Lamanites.
A fierce fight broke out, both sides goin’ at it tooth and nail; there were plenty to bury, and sure enough, Moroni took a hit while Jacob bit the dust.
Lehi was hot on their tails, pressin’ hard with his strong men, so much so that the Lamanites in the back had no choice but to drop their weapons, left confounded, not knowin’ where to flee or counter.
Now, Moroni, seein’ all that confusion, called out to 'em: If ya’ll put down your arms, we won't go spillin’ your blood.
And when the Lamanites heard that, all their captains who weren’t slain stepped forward and tossed their weapons down at Moroni’s feet, tellin' their men to do the same.
But some were stubborn as mules; those who wouldn’t hand over their swords got rounded up, their weapons taken, and they were forced to march along with their kin back into Bountiful.
When all was said and done, the number of prisoners caught was more than the ones who'd been laid low, more than the toll on both sides combined.
