They set some tough ol’ cowhands to keep watch over them Lamanite prisoners, and made ‘em go dig up their own folks who’d passed on, as well as the Nephite folks who got themselves killed in battle; Moroni put some fellas in charge to keep an eye on ‘em while they worked.
Then Moroni rode on over to the town of Mulek with his good buddy Lehi, took hold of the place, and handed it over to Lehi. Now, let me tell ya, Lehi was no greenhorn—he’d fought alongside Moroni in most of the skirmishes they’d had; he was a real stand-up fella, just like Moroni, and they both felt mighty grateful for each other’s safety; indeed, them two were pals and beloved by the whole Nephite bunch.
After the Lamanites finished buryin’ their dead along with the Nephites, they were herded back into the land of Bountiful. Following Moroni’s orders, Teancum got ‘em started on diggin’ a big ol’ ditch all the way ‘round the town of Bountiful.
Then he had ‘em build a strong ol’ wall of timber on the inside of the ditch, throwin’ dirt up against it from the ditch; thus, they made the Lamanites work their fingers to the bone till they’d ringed that Bountiful town with a sturdy wall of wood and dirt, standin’ high as a prairie sunrise.
That town turned into a real fortress after that; it was where they kept the Lamanite prisoners; yep, locked up behind a wall they’d built with their own sweat. Moroni had to make those Lamanites work hard, ‘cause it made it easier to keep an eye on ‘em while they were busy; he wanted all his cowpoke ready when he’d move to tackle the Lamanites.
And sure as shootin', Moroni had managed to whip one of the mightiest Lamanite armies and taken over the fort of Mulek, which was one of their strongest holds in all Nephite territory; and so he built a sturdy place to keep his prisoners safe.
Now, it came to pass that he didn’t go lookin’ for a fight with the Lamanites that year, but instead had his crew get ready for war, yeah, fortifying their defenses against the Lamanites, and also makin' sure to rescue their women and kiddos from hunger and hardship, while settin’ up provisions for the troops.
Now listen here, while Moroni was busy with some dealings among the Nephites, some trouble brewed among them, and because of that, the Lamanites down by the west sea made some headway and snatched up a few of their towns.
‘Cause of their own mischief, and all that bickering, they found themselves in a tight spot.
And lo and behold, I gotta mention the folks of Ammon, who once were Lamanites; thanks to Ammon and his brothers, through the power of God, they were turned ‘round and followed the Lord; they made their way to the land of Zarahemla, and the Nephites kept watch over ‘em ever since.
And on account of their promise, they’d never turn against their fellow countrymen; they swore an oath not to spill blood no more; and they’d a-died before they let themselves be caught by their kin, had it not been for the great love and compassion Ammon and his brothers showed ‘em.
That’s why they ended up in Zarahemla, and kept under the protective wing of the Nephites.
But when they saw the danger and the hardships the Nephites were goin’ through for their sake, their hearts bled, and they wanted to take up arms for their homeland.
Yet, just as they were fixin’ to grab their guns, they got talked down by Helaman and his crew, ‘cause they were fixin' to break their promise.
Helaman worried that if they did, they'd be gambled away their very souls; so all them who had made that covenant had to watch their buddies face all manner of trouble while bein’ in a real pickle.
But here’s the deal, they had many young’uns who hadn’t joined the no-fight club, and they sure were ready to pick up arms whenever they needed; so, they gathered together, as many as could, and called themselves Nephites.
They made a vow to fight for the freedom of the Nephites, yeah, to defend their land no matter the cost; they promised they wouldn’t be givin’ up their liberty, but would stand strong in every fight to keep the Nephites and themselves from bein' shackled.
Now let me tell ya, two thousand of them young fellas took that oath and grabbed their battle gear to defend their land.
And since they’d never been a bother to the Nephites before, they now became a mighty force; all armed up, they wanted Helaman to lead ‘em into the fray.
These were all young bucks, brave as lions, strong and quick; but that ain’t the half of it—they was reliable as the sun risin’ each mornin’, trustworthy in whatever task they were given.
Yep, they were men of their word and serious as a rattlesnake’s bite, ‘cause they’d been raised to live by God’s commandments and walk true in His sight.
And so it came to pass that Helaman took the lead with his two thousand young fighters to back up the folks on the southern borders by the west sea.
And that’s how the twenty-eighth year of judge rulings over the Nephites came to a close.
