Well now, it was in the start of the twenty-ninth year of the judges, that ol’ Ammoron sent a message to Moroni, lookin' to barter prisoners.
And it so happened that Moroni felt mighty pleased with this request, seein' as he needed the grub bein' given to the Lamanite captives for his own folks; and he was also keen on havin' his own men around to beef up his army.
Now them Lamanites had snatched up a heap of women and children, and there wasn’t a single woman or child in the bunch of Moroni’s captives, or any he had caught; so Moroni cooked up a cunning plan to snag as many Nephite captives from the Lamanites as he could rustle up.
So he penned a letter, sendin’ it with the servant of Ammoron, the same fella who had brought a letter to Moroni. Here’s what he had to say to Ammoron:
Listen up, Ammoron, I’m writin’ you about this here war yer kin started against my folks, or more rightly, the one yer brother started, which y’all are still set on continuin’ even after he’s kicked the bucket.
Now I reckon I ought to tell ya about the justice of God, and his mighty wrath hangin’ over ya like a storm cloud, unless ya repent and haul yer armies back to yer own territory, the land of Nephi.
Yep, I’d give ya the lowdown if I thought y’all could take it in; I’d tell ya 'bout the dreadful hell waitin' to take in murderers like you and yer brother, if ya don’t change yer ways and call off yer attacks, and skedaddle back to yer own lands.
But seein’ as ya turned yer back on this once before, I reckon you’ll do it again.
Now listen here, we’re ready for ya; and if ya don’t back off, ya best believe the fury of that God you’ve spurned is gonna rain down on ya, leadin’ to yer full-on destruction.
By the livin’ Lord, our armies are comin’ for ya if ya don’t retreat, and death’ll be knockin’ at yer door soon, ‘cause we’re holdin’ on to our towns and lands; you bet we’re gonna protect our faith and the cause of our God.
But truth be told, I reckon I’m wastin’ my breath talkin’ to ya about all this; or maybe you’re just a hell-bound fool; so I’ll wrap up my letter by tellin’ ya I won’t swap prisoners unless ya hand over a man, his wife, and their young’uns for each Nephite prisoner; if that’s what you’re willin’ to do, then I’ll make the trade.
And mark my words, if you can't meet that, I’ll be comin’ at ya with my armies; yep, even gettin’ my women and younglings suited up, we’ll follow ya right back to yer own land, the place our folks first laid claim to; and it’ll be blood for blood, life for life; we’ll battle ya till you’re wiped clean off the map.
I’m fired up, and so are my people; you’ve tried to take us down, while we’ve only been tryin’ to protect ourselves. But don’t you forget, if ya keep huntin’ us down, we’ll be huntin’ ya, too; and we’re claimin’ our rightful land, the land we first inherited.
Now I’ll put an end to my letter. I’m Moroni; I’m the head honcho of the Nephite folks.
Now after he got this here letter, Ammoron was fumin’; he wrote back to Moroni, and here’s what he had to say:
I’m Ammoron, the king of the Lamanites; I’m the brother of that Amalickiah you done gunned down. Just know, I’m comin’ for ya to avenge his blood, and I won’t bat an eye at your threats.
Your fathers done wronged their kin, even takin’ away their right to governin’ when it rightly belonged to ‘em.
Now listen here, if y’all lay down yer arms and let the rightful owners of that governin’ call the shots, I’ll have my folks put their weapons down too, and we won’t have no more fuss.
I’ve heard yer mighty threats against me and mine; but let me tell ya, we ain't scared of your bark.
But I’m willin’ to swap prisoners like ya asked, gladly, just to save my rations for my fighters; and we’ll carry on a fight that don’t quit, either to bring the Nephites under our thumb or to see their end.
And as for that God y’all claim we’ve turned our backs on, well, we don’t know of no such critter; and neither do ya; but if there’s a God, we figure he made us just like you.
And if there is a devil and a hell, don’t ya reckon he’ll send ya to hang out with my brother you put to rest, the one you hinted at endin’ up in such a place? But these things don’t matter none.
I’m Ammoron, a descendant of Zoram, who your fathers drove out from Jerusalem.
And I’ll tell ya this, I’m a bold Lamanite; this war’s been fought to right the wrongs done to us, and to grab hold of what’s rightfully ours; and that’s where I’ll end my letter to Moroni.
