Well, when Moroni got that letter, he was hotter than a rattlesnake in a rabbit hole, 'cause he figured Ammoron was wise to his trickery; yep, he knew that Ammoron was onto him, and that this whole war deal wasn’t any kinda fair fight against the good folks of Nephi.
So he declared, "Look here, I ain’t swapping prisoners with Ammoron unless he pulls back his plan, just like I penned in my letter; I ain't givin' him one more ounce of power than he's already got."
"Now listen up, I know right where them Lamanite folks are keepin’ my pals they captured; and since Ammoron ain’t playin’ nice with my message, I reckon I’ll show him what for by seekin' death among ‘em ‘til they come lookin’ for peace."
Then Moroni spoke them words, and he got his men to search high and low, hopin' to find a feller descendin' from Laman himself.
Sure enough, they found one named Laman, who'd been servin' the king that Amalickiah offed.
Now Moroni told Laman and a few of his buddies to ride on over to the guards keepin' an eye on the Nephites.
Well, the Nephites were holed up safe in the city of Gid; so Moroni set Laman on this task and let a handful of his crew tag along.
When night fell, Laman strolled up to them guards lookin' after the Nephites, and they spotted him comin' and hailed him; but he told 'em, "Don’t fret now, I’m just a Lamanite. We busted loose from the Nephites, and they’re all snoozin'. We even brought some of their fancy wine with us."
Hearing that, the Lamanites were tickled pink; they shouted, "Pour us a drink, brother! We’re mighty grateful you brought wine, ‘cause we’re plum tuckered out."
But Laman warned, "Let’s hold off on the drinkin' till we ride out against the Nephites." That only made them itch for that wine even more;
'Cause they said, "We’re worn out, so let’s drink up now, and later we’ll have more for stamina when we go at those Nephites!"
Laman replied, "Well then, y’all do as ya please."
So they dove right into that wine, and it tasted good to ‘em; they just kept on drinkin’ it down, and it was stronger than a bull.
Next thing ya know, they were all feelin’ pretty merry, and before long, they were flat-out drunk.
Once Laman and his crew saw them all in a stupor and snoozin’ like babies, they headed back to Moroni and filled him in on the whole shebang.
Now this was just what Moroni had in mind. He’d armed his men with war gear and headed over to the city Gid while the Lamanites were in a heavy sleep, tossin' weapons of war to the Nephite prisoners, so they could all get themselves ready to fight;
Even them women and kids who knew how to handle a weapon, once Moroni armed all them prisoners, and all this was pulled off quieter than a prairie mouse.
But if they’d a-woken up the Lamanites, reckon they’d have been done for and the Nephites could’ve wiped ‘em out.
But Muroni didn’t wish for such a bloody scene; he didn’t find joy in spillin’ blood or takin' lives; no siree, he was out to save his folks from ruin; and that’s why he wouldn’t pounce on the Lamanites while they were drunk.
Yet he got what he wanted, ‘cause he armed those Nephite prisoners holed up inside the town and gave ‘em the power to take back those parts of Gid.
Then he told his men to back away a bit and close in on the Lamanite army.
Now this all went down under the cover of night, so when the Lamanites woke up in the mornin’, they saw they were surrounded by the Nephites on the outside, and their prisoners all armed on the inside.
And that’s when it dawned on 'em that the Nephites had the upper hand; in this pickle, they reckoned it wouldn’t be too smart to go about fightin’ them Nephites; so their leaders gave ‘em their war gear, tossin' it down at the feet of the Nephites, beggin’ for mercy.
Now this was just what Moroni wanted. He took ‘em captive and laid claim to the town, freeing all the Nephite prisoners, who then joined his ranks and filled out the strength of his army.
Next, Moroni put those captured Lamanites to work shoring up the defenses around Gid.
Once he’d fortified Gid to his likin’, he sent those prisoners off to the city Bountiful; and he made sure to guard that town with a hefty force.
Despite all the schemin’ of the Lamanites, they kept all them prisoners they’d captured safe and sound, maintaining all the ground and advantages they’d regained.
And sure enough, the Nephites started winnin' again, claimin' back what was rightfully theirs.
The Lamanites made many attempts to close in on ‘em under the veil of night, but in those tries, they lost plenty of prisoners.
They also tried to peddle their wine to the Nephites, hopin’ to poison ‘em or get ‘em drunk enough to take ‘em down.
But the Nephites weren’t slow to remember their God during this hard time. They weren’t gonna get caught in their traps; no way, they wouldn’t touch that wine unless they first handed some over to the Lamanite prisoners.
They were careful to make sure no poison slipped into their drinks; ‘cause if a Lamanite wine would do 'em harm, it would surely do the same to a Nephite; so they tested all their spirits.
Now it was high time for Moroni to get his plans in order for an assault on the city Morianton; ‘cause the Lamanites had fortified that place strong enough to make it a real tough nut to crack through their own hard work.
And they kept bringin’ in fresh troops and plenty of supplies to hold that place.
And that brings us to the close of the twenty-ninth year of the judges rul’n over the folks of Nephi.
