Well now, it was the start of that thirtieth year when Moroni got himself a letter from Helaman, tellin’ all about the folks ’round his neck of the woods in this war.
And here’s what he jotted down, sayin’: My dear brother Moroni, both in good times and in these fightin’ troubles; I got some words to share with ya about our tussles in this neck of the land.
You see, there’s a couple thousand young bucks, sons of them fellers Ammon brought down from Nephi—now you know these lads are kin to Laman, the eldest of our old man Lehi.
Ain’t no need for me to spin you tales ‘bout their old customs or their doubts, ‘cause you already got the scoop on that.
So I’ll just mention that two thousand of these young’uns grabbed their shootin’ irons, and would have me saddle up as their leader; we’re ready to defend our homestead.
And you know about the pact their daddies made, that they wouldn’t pick up arms against their own kin to spill blood.
But in the twenty-sixth year, when they caught wind of our troubles, they were fixin’ to break that promise and take up arms to help us out.
But I wouldn’t let ‘em throw away that agreement, thinkin’ God would give us the strength not to suffer more for stickin’ to the oath they’d sworn.
But here’s a bit of good news, partner. In the twenty-sixth year, I, Helaman, led these two thousand strappin’ lads to the city of Judea, to help Antipus, who you’d put in charge o’ that part of the land.
And I joined my two thousand sons (and they sure deserve the title of sons) to the army of Antipus, givin’ him a heap of joy; ‘cause his ranks had thinned out, takin’ heavy losses to them Lamanites, and we had some mournin’ to do.
Still, we can take comfort in knowin’ they died fightin’ for their land and their God, bless their souls.
Now, them Lamanites had a whole heap of prisoners, all high-ranking captains, ‘cause they sure weren’t sparin' anyone else. We reckon they’re holed up in Nephi right now, if they ain’t already kicked the bucket.
Here’s the towns the Lamanites took over after spillin’ the blood of our brave men:
The land of Manti, the city of Manti, Zeezrom, Cumeni, and Antiparah.
Those were the towns they had when I roped in at Judea; and I found Antipus and his crew workin’ their tails off to shore up that city.
Yep, they were feelin’ low, both in spirit and body, ‘cause they’d fought like wildcats by day and burned the midnight oil tryin’ to hold their ground; they’d suffered a heap of troubles, no doubt.
But they were set on winnin’ right there or dyin’ in the dust; so you can bet that this little bunch I brought, those young’uns of mine, gave ‘em new hope and joy.
Then it came to pass that when the Lamanites saw Antipus had boosted his army, they were ordered by Ammoron to hold off attackin’ Judea, or us, for now.
And thus we were blessed by the Lord; ‘cause if they had come at us while we were weak, they might’ve wiped us off the map; but we were spared.
Ammoron told them to hold onto the towns they’d taken. So that wrapped up the twenty-sixth year. And when the twenty-seventh year rolled ‘round, we was all set up to defend ourselves and our town.
We was hopin’ the Lamanites would come at us; we weren’t lookin’ to strike first in their strongholds.
So we kept watchin’ for ’em, settin’ up scouts all around, makin’ sure they didn’t creep past us by night or day to give our other northward towns some trouble.
‘Cause we knew them other towns weren’t strong enough to take ‘em on; so if they slipped by, we wanted to hit ‘em from behind while they was distracted up front. We figured we could take the fight to ‘em, but turns out we were wrong about that.
They wouldn’t dare march past us with their whole outfit or even a piece of it, thinkin’ they might get caught out and overpowered.
And they weren’t about to make a move on Zarahemla either; nor did they consider crossin’ at the head of Sidon to hit up Nephihah.
So, with their forces, they were bent on holdin’ onto what they’d captured.
And in the second month of this year, we got a heap of supplies rollin' in from the fathers of my two thousand lads.
Plus they sent us another two thousand men from Zarahemla. So we was set with ten thousand strong and enough grub for ‘em, along with their wives and kiddos too.
Now the Lamanites, seein’ our numbers growin’ and supplies pourin’ in, started to get a mite jumpy, and were tryin’ to put a stop to our supplies and strength.
When we noticed they were gettin’ all skittish, we figured to pull a fast one on ‘em; so Antipus directed me to take my young’uns and seem like we were transportin’ supplies to the next town over.
We was gonna march near Antiparah, actin’ like we was headin’ to that town just past it, right by the shoreline.
So we set out, pretendin’ to haul our goods to that city.
And it came to pass that Antipus took part of his army too, while leavin’ the rest to guard the town. But he didn’t move until I had already headed out with my little band and got close to Antiparah.
Now in that city, the Lamanites had their strongest army all fixed up; they were the biggest crowd around.
And when their spies clued ’em in, they charged out with their whole gang and came right after us.
So we skedaddled northward, leadin’ off the mightiest part of the Lamanite army.
Sure enough, we got quite the distance ahead, ‘til they saw Antipus and his crew comin’ hard after ‘em; they didn’t veer left or right, just kept followin’ our trail, hopin’ to finish us off before Antipus could catch up and trap ‘em.
Noticin’ our pickle, Antipus kicked his boys into high gear. But night had fallen, so neither side caught up to the other, and we made camp for the night.
Then before dawn broke, those Lamanites were on our tail again. Now we wasn’t strong enough to stand up to ‘em; and I swore I wouldn’t let my little boys fall into their clutches, so we kept movin’ and headed into the wild.
They were afraid to steer clear lest they get trapped; and neither would I turn off the trail, not wantin’ the same fate; we couldn’t take on their numbers and risk gettin’ wiped out, so we fled that whole day into the wilderness, ‘til darkness fell.
When the mornin’ light shone again, we could see them Lamanites pushin’ us, so we took off again.
But they didn’t chase us too far before they stopped; it was the mornin’ of the third day of the seventh month.
Now whether Antipus caught up to ‘em, we didn’t know, but I said to my men: Here we are, we don’t know if they stopped ‘cause they’re settin’ a trap to catch us; 
So, what say ya, my boys, are y’all up for the fight?
And I’ll tell ya true, my dear brother Moroni, I’ve never seen such grit, not even from all the Nephites together.
‘Cause even though I’d always called them my sons (they were all just young fellas), they said to me: Father, look yonder, our God is with us, and he won’t let us fall; let’s ride out; we wouldn’t harm our kin if they’d just leave us be; so let’s go forth before they overpower Antipus's army.
Now they might not ever have fought, but they didn’t fear death; they thought more about their fathers’ freedom than their own safety; their mamas had taught ‘em that if they didn’t waver, God would come through for ‘em.
And they reminded me of their mothers’ words: We don’t doubt our mamas knew what was what.
And it happened that I rode back with my two thousand against those Lamanites after us. And sure as shootin’, Antipus’s men had caught up with ‘em, and a fierce battle was on.
Antipus’s bunch was tired from marchin' a long way fast, and they were just about to get caught by the Lamanites; if I hadn’t come back with my two thousand, they’d have met their end.
For Antipus had fallen in battle, and many of his leaders, all worn out from the rush, so his folks were lost and confused, givin’ way to the Lamanites.
Then the Lamanites felt emboldened, chasin’ after our men fierce, just as Helaman rolled up on their rear with my two thousand, layin’ waste to ‘em real good, to the point where the Lamanite army pulled up short and turned on Helaman.
When Antipus's folks saw that the Lamanites were turnin’ on 'em, they rallied their men and came at the Lamanites from behind.
And it came to pass that we Nephites, the folks of Antipus, and I with my two thousand, surrounded those Lamanites and took ‘em down; that’s right, we made ‘em give up their weapons and surrender themselves as prisoners of war.
And now it happened when they laid down their arms, I made sure to count my brave young men who fought alongside me, worryin’ there might be some fallen.
But to my great relief, not a single one of ‘em had hit the dust; no sir, they fought with the very strength of God; never was there a crew known to fight with such otherworldly power; they struck such fear into the Lamanites that they surrendered right quick.
And since we didn’t have anywhere to stash our prisoners safe from the Lamanite armies, we sent ‘em on to Zarahemla, along with some of Antipus’s fellas who hadn’t been slain; the rest I took and joined them to my brave Ammonites, and we made our way back to the city of Judea.
