Well now, it happened that I received a letter from that scallywag Ammoron, the king, sayin’ that if I handed over them prisoners of war we snagged, he’d give us the town of Antiparah in return.
But I shot back a letter to the king, lettin’ him know we figured our crew was plenty fierce enough to take that Antiparah town on our own; and givin’ up them prisoners just for that city would be downright foolish, so we’d only swap prisoners if it was a fair trade.
Ammoron turned down my letter quicker than a jackrabbit, ‘cause he wasn’t keen on swappin’ prisoners; so we started makin’ plans to ride on over to Antiparah.
But the folks of Antiparah skedaddled from the town and high-tailed it to their other towns to shore ‘em up; and that’s how we laid our hands on the city of Antiparah.
Thus wrapped up the twenty-eighth year of the reign of the judges.
And it turned out that at the start of the twenty-ninth year, we got a heap of provisions and a fresh batch o’ soldiers from the land of Zarahemla and nearby, amountin’ to six thousand hombres, plus sixty of the sons of the Ammonites who decided to join up with my little band of two thousand. Gosh, we felt strong, and we had a cornucopia of grub brought our way.
Well, we figured it was high time to wrangle a fight with the army guarding the city of Cumeni.
And would ya believe it, we soon got our wish; with part of our mighty force, we surrounded that city of Cumeni one dark night right before they were ‘bout to receive a fresh batch of supplies.
We made camp ‘round that there city for a few nights; but we stayed sharp as a tack, sleepin’ with our swords at the ready, keepin' watch so them Lamanites couldn't sneak up on us at night and do us harm, which they tried more than once; and every time, their blood was spilled like a busted jug.
Finally, them provisions arrived, and they were fixin' to enter the city at night. But we were Nephites, not Lamanites, so we grabbed ‘em and their supplies right out from under their noses.
Even though the Lamanites found themselves cut off from help, they were still hell-bent on holdin’ onto that city; so it made sense for us to haul off them provisions and send ‘em to Judea, along with our prisoners to the land of Zarahemla.
Not many days passed before it was clear the Lamanites were losin’ all hope of rescue; so they gave up that city to us; and just like that, we achieved our goal of takin’ Cumeni.
But I tell ya, our prisoners were so many, it was a real pickle; despite havin’ a whole heap of folks, we had to muster all our strength just to keep ‘em in line, or consider takin' ‘em out.
Y’see, they were fixin’ to burst out in droves, fightin’ like wildcats with rocks and clubs, or whatever they could nab; and we ended up takin’ out over two thousand of ‘em after they’d surrendered.
So it was best we decided to put an end to their lives, or guard ‘em, sword in hand, all the way down to the land of Zarahemla; besides, we barely had enough provisions for our own folks, let alone the Lamanites’ spoils.
Now in such dire times, it was a mighty serious notion on what to do with them prisoners; still, we resolved to send ‘em down to Zarahemla; so we picked a few good men to oversee them on the way.
Well, wouldn’t ya know it, the very next day they came back. And we didn’t even ask ‘em ‘bout the prisoners; ‘cause right then the Lamanites were hot on our trail, and they returned just in time to keep us from bein’ caught.
For it turned out Ammoron had sent a fresh supply of grub and a whole mess of reinforcements their way.
Sure enough, them men we sent with the prisoners made it back just in time to slow ‘em down as they were about to overrun us.
But lemme tell ya, my little band of two thousand and sixty fought like the devil; they stood their ground against the Lamanites and sent ‘em to meet their maker.
As the rest of our outfit looked like they might give in to the Lamanites, it was those two thousand and sixty that stood strong and unshaken.
They obeyed every command like a pack of loyal hounds; and according to their faith, they got what they asked for; I kept hearin’ the words their mamas had taught ‘em.
Now it was these boys and the men we picked to escort our prisoners we owe this mighty victory to; they’re the ones that beat back the Lamanites, sendin' ‘em runnin’ back to Manti.
We held onto our town of Cumeni, and didn’t get wiped out by the sword; but boy, did we suffer a heap of loss.
When the Lamanites high-tailed it outta there, I gave the order that my wounded men be pulled from amongst the dead, and I made sure they got their wounds tended to.
Out of my two thousand and sixty, two hundred of ‘em had fainted from blood loss; but by God’s grace, to our great surprise and our whole army’s joy, not a single one of ‘em perished; not one had dodged without takin’ on a heap of wounds.
Now, their survival was a wonder to all of us, since a thousand of our brethren were laid low; we rightly chalked it up to the miraculous power of God, thanks to their firm belief in a just God, and that without doubt, they’d be saved by His mighty hand.
Now this was the faith of them I’ve been talkin’ ‘bout; they were young, their minds steady, and they trusted God without fail.
Once we tended to our wounded and laid our dead and the many Lamanites to rest, we inquired of Gid about them prisoners who started down to Zarahemla.
Gid, he was the top dog in charge of the crew supposed to guard ‘em down.
Now these were the words Gid shared with me: "Well, we started to wheel down to Zarahemla with them prisoners. But we ran smack into the spies from our army who were sent to scout out the Lamanites’ camp."
And they hollered at us, sayin’, "Look out! The Lamanite armies are marchin' towards the city of Cumeni; they’ll be fallin’ on our people, and we’ll be done for!"
When our prisoners heard their shoutin’, it juiced ‘em up with courage, and they rose up in rebellion against us.
Well, ‘cause of their ruckus, we had no choice but to bring our swords to bear. They charged us all at once, and we had quite a few of ‘em meet their end that way; the rest of 'em broke free and scooted away.
Once they bolted and we couldn’t catch up, we hightailed it to the city Cumeni, and we made it just in time to help our brethren defend the town.
Lookee here! We’re saved again from our enemies. Blessed be the name of our God, for He’s the one who’s delivered us, doin’ this great thing for us.
Well, when I, Helaman, caught wind of Gid’s words, my heart swelled with joy for God’s goodness in keepin’ us safe from perdition; and I trust that the spirits of those who fell have found peace with their Creator.
