Well now, it came to pass that our next aim was to rustle up the city of Manti; but lo and behold, our little band of cowpokes couldn’t lure them outta their fortified hideouts. They sure remembered how we wrangled 'em before, so there wasn't no chance of trickin' 'em away from their strongholds.
And they outnumbered our bunch by a long shot, an’ we weren’t fixin’ to charge in and confront 'em right where they had their defenses up.
Yessiree, it was clear as a summer day that we oughta keep our crew busy holdin’ onto what parts of the land we had wrangled back; so we figured it best to bide our time, waitin’ for more backup from the land of Zarahemla and a fresh supply of grub.
I sent word to the governor of our territory, lettin’ him know what was goin’ on with our folks. We just waited 'round for the provisions and strength to roll in from Zarahemla.
But truth be told, that didn’t help us much, seein’ as the Lamanites were beefin’ up their numbers every day, gatherin' supplies faster than we could manage. That’s where we found ourselves at that point.
The Lamanites were constantly sendin’ parties out to stir up trouble, schemin’ up ways to squash us; but we couldn’t really engage 'em, ‘cause they had those retreats and strongholds sewed up tight.
Months rolled on in those tough circumstances, lookin’ like we might just starve for lack of grub.
But then we finally got some provisions, escorted to us by two thousand brave souls, and that was all the help we got to keep our homesteads safe from them pesky enemies, a mighty task against a host too big to count.
As for why we hadn’t received more reinforcements, well, that was a mystery to us; we were feelin’ pretty low and scared, worried that the hand of God might come down on our land, bringin’ us to ruin.
So, we lifted our hearts in prayer to God, beggin’ Him to strengthen us and help us outta the grips of our enemies, givin’ us the stamina to hold onto our towns, lands, and what we had left to support our people.
And it came to pass that the Lord our God showered us with reassurances that He’d be comin' to our aid; He spoke peace to our troubled souls, filled us up with faith, and got us hopin’ for our deliverance through Him.
Our spirits lifted with the meager force we had, and we set our sights on defeatin’ those enemies to protect our lands, our kin, and our freedom.
So we rode out with everything we had against those Lamanites holed up in Manti; we pitched our camp just ‘bout the edge of the wilds, close to the city.
The next mornin', when the Lamanites spotted us at the fringes, they sent out their scouts to see just how many cowboys they were up against.
Turns out when they figured we were short on numbers and worried we'd cut 'em off from their support, they thought they could easily bring us down with their big ol’ army. So they started gettin’ ready to charge us.
As soon as we saw they were fixin’ to come after us, I huddled my smaller bunch together; I sent Gid and a few other fellas out of sight in the wilds.
Gid and his crew took position on the right, while Teomner and his bunch were on the left; after they got settled in their hidey-holes, I stayed put with the rest of my army right where we first set up camp, waitin’ for the Lamanites to come at us.
And come they did, with their large force set to charge us. Just as they were fixin’ to pounce with their weapons drawn, I gave the signal for my men to retreat into the wilds.
Well, the Lamanites were hot on our tails, eager as a hound to catch up and take us down; they chased us right into the wilds, and we slipped right between Gid and Teomner without settin’ off any alarms.
When the Lamanites had passed by, Gid and Teomner sprang from their hiding spots, layin’ waste to those spies of the Lamanites so they couldn’t report back to the city.
Once they put the kibosh on those spies, they bolted straight to the city and took on the guards still hangin' out there, dispatchin’ 'em with ease and seizin’ control of the place.
Now, this all happened ‘cause the Lamanites had led their whole flock, save a few sentry types, out into the wild, leavin’ the city pretty open.
Gid and Teomner managed to take over their fortified position through this ruckus. We made our way, havin’ trekked a good long stretch through the wild in the direction of Zarahemla.
When the Lamanites caught wind that we were headin' for Zarahemla, they got themselves right scared, thinkin’ we might be plannin’ a trap to lead 'em to their doom; so they skedaddled back into the wild, retracin’ their steps.
As night fell, they set up their camp, ‘cause the head honchos of the Lamanites thought we’d be tuckered out from our march; and they reckoned they had us all but chased off, not givin’ a lick of thought to Manti.
When darkness settled in, I got my crew to keep on movin’, marchin’ ‘round by another route toward Manti.
Thanks to our night ride, come mornin’ we had already outpaced the Lamanites and hit Manti before they knew what hit 'em.
So through this clever plan, we took hold of the city of Manti without spillin’ any blood.
And when the Lamanite armies rolled up to the city and saw us ready for a face-off, they were taken aback and filled with fear, and they high-tailed it back into the wilds.
Yup, the Lamanite armies took off from all corners of this territory, but they did haul off a bunch of women and children with 'em.
All them cities the Lamanites had overrun, every last one of ‘em is back in our hands now, and our folks are headin’ home, all except those who got nabbed and carted off by the Lamanites.
However, I reckon our forces are on the slim side to guard all these towns and what we’ve gotta protect.
Yet, we got our faith in the good Lord who’s helped us claim back our lands and towns, which rightfully belong to us.
Now we ain't too certain why the government ain't sendin’ us more help; even them newcomers to our camp don’t rightly know why we ain’t seen no bigger back-up.
We ain't for complainin’ if it turns out y’all just weren’t successful and pulled your forces into another corner; it don’t bother us none.
And if that ain't the case, we worry there’s some kind of division in the government keepin’ them from sendin’ us more men; we know they got more folks than what they’ve sent our way.
But it don’t matter a lick—we trust the good Lord will rescue us, despite our army bein’ a bit light, and deliver us from our foes.
Now, it’s the twenty-ninth year, drawin’ to a close, and we’re holdin’ onto our lands, while the Lamanites have made themselves scarce back to Nephi.
And those Ammonite sons I’ve been raving about are right here with me in Manti; the Lord’s been watchin’ over 'em, keepin’ ‘em safe from the sword, not a single one has bit the dust.
But they sure have taken on some wounds; still, they stand resolute in the freedom God’s blessed ‘em with, and they’re diligent about rememberin’ the Lord day in and day out; they stick to keepin’ His laws, judgments, and commandments steady; and their faith holds strong in the prophecies of what’s still to come.
And now, my dear brother Moroni, may the Lord our God, who took us from bondage and made us free, keep you in His sight; may He bless this people so you find success in reclaimin’ everything that the Lamanites took from us, which was meant for our support. And now, I’ll reckon that’s enough for this here letter. I’m Helaman, the son of Alma.
