Well, it happened in the thirtieth year of them judges takin' the reins over the folks in Nephi, after Moroni laid eyes on Helaman's letter, he was downright thrilled ‘bout the good fortunes, shoot, the downright success Helaman had in grabbin' back those lands that had slipped away.
Sure 'nough, he spread the word to all his folks, all 'round that part of the country where he was, so they could get in on the rejoicin' too.
Right then, he shot off a letter to Pahoran, askin’ him to rustle up some tough hombres to fortify Helaman, or Helaman’s army, so that fella could easily hold onto that part of the land he’d miraculously taken back.
Then, once Moroni sent that letter off to Zarahemla, he got to schemin’ again, fixin’ on how to snag the rest of those lands and towns that them Lamanites had taken from 'em.
And while Moroni was busy makin’ his plans to square off against the Lamanites, lo and behold, the folks from Nephihah, who’d come together from Moroni, Lehi, and Morianton, found themselves under attack by them Lamanites.
Yeah, those poor souls who had been forced to skedaddle from Manti and the lands nearby had crossed over and joined up with the Lamanites in that neck of the woods.
So bein' a gigantic bunch, and growin' stronger every day, under the command of Ammoron they charged at Nephihah's people, and boy, did they start layin’ down a fierce beatin’.
Their ranks were so thick that the remaining folks in Nephihah had no choice but to run for their lives; they skedaddled all the way to join Moroni's forces.
Now, as Moroni figured there oughta be some fellers sent to Nephihah to lend a hand to keepin' that town safe, knowin' full well it’d be easier to hold the city than to take it back after losin’ it, he thought for sure they’d hold it just fine.
So, he held onto all his men to guard those spots he had claimed back.
But when Moroni saw them Lamanites had taken Nephihah, he felt a heap of sorrow, and doubt crept in ‘cause he looked at how wicked the people were, wonderin’ if they’d end up in the hands of their own kin.
This doubt didn’t just sit with him; all his top captains felt the same way. They were puzzled and worried too, all due to the wickedness of the people and how successful the Lamanites had been against ‘em.
Then it came to pass that Moroni got riled up with the government, fussin’ about their indifference to keepin’ their country free.
