Well, it came to pass that I wrote again to the big boss of this here territory, a fella named Pahoran, and he’s sittin' pretty as the chief judge and governor over this land, and I’m sendin’ this missive to all them folks chosen by the people to run this here war business.
I reckon I got a thing or two to say to y’all that ain’t too nice; see, y’all know you’ve been set to round up folks, arm ‘em with guns, blades and all sorts of weapons, and send ‘em out against the Lamanites wherever they stomp into our territory. 
Now hear me out, me and my gang, along with Helaman and his crew, we’ve been through the wringer—sufferin’ like dogs, starvin’, dyin’ of thirst, and wearin' ourselves out, dealin’ with all kinds of troubles.
But if that was all we faced, we wouldn’t be grumblin’ one bit.
But here’s the trouble—there’s been a heap of blood spilled among our folks; thousands have met their end by the blade, and it’d be a whole lot different if you’d shown our armies some proper support and strength. Y’all sure have dropped the ball on us.
Now we’re hopin’ to understand what’s behind this downright neglect; we’re itchin’ to know why you seem to be sittin' on your hands so recklessly.
Can ya really sit on your thrones in a daze while your enemies are spreadin’ death all around? Ya, while they’re out there butchering thousands of your brothers—
Yup, even those who’ve looked to you for protection, who’ve put y’all in a position to help ‘em, who could’ve sent armies to bolster their spirits and saved thousands from the blade.
But don’t think that's all—y’all have held back the grub, so many folks have fought and bled out their lives just tryin’ to look out for this people; they did it while nearly starvin’ because you’ve been so neglectful.
Now, my dear brothers—y’all oughta be loved; you shoulda been more stirred up for the good and freedom of our folks; but instead, you’ve let ‘em down so bad that the blood of thousands is gonna land right on your heads for vengeance; yes, God’s fully aware of all their cries and all their hardships—
Do y’all reckon you can just sit on your thrones, thinkin’ because God’s mighty good, you can do nothin’ and He’ll pull ya through? If that’s what you think, you’re just whistlin’ in the dark.
Do y’all believe that just ‘cause so many of your brothers have bit the dust, it’s ‘cause they were wicked? I tell ya, if that’s your thought, it’s a foolish one; there’ve been plenty who’ve fallen to the sword, and it’s a black mark against you;
The Lord allows the righteous to meet their end so that His justice can rain down on the wicked; so don’t go thinkin’ that the righteous are lost just ‘cause of their deaths; they’re headin’ right into the rest of the Lord their God.
Now, I’m tellin’ ya, I’m downright worried that God’s judgment is gonna come down on this people due to their lazy ways, the laziness festering in our government, and your mighty neglect toward your brethren, towards those who’ve been cut down.
If it weren’t for the wickedness that kicked off right at the top, we coulda stood our ground against our enemies without them gainin’ a foothold on us.
Sure enough, if it weren’t for this war breakin’ out among us; if it weren’t for them king-men stirrin' up all this bloodshed; while we were busy squabblin’ among ourselves, if we’d united our strength as we have before; if it weren’t for the greed for power and authority those king-men had over us; if they’d been true to freedom and stood with us against our enemies instead of raisin’ their swords against us, which brought so much bloodshed among ourselves; if we had rallied against our foes in the Lord’s strength, we woulda sent ‘em runnin’, just like it says in His word.
But look at us now, the Lamanites are descendin’ on us, plunderin’ our lands, and they’re killin’ our people with steel, yes sir, our women and children, and cartin’ ‘em off as captives, makin’ ‘em suffer all kinds of awful things ‘cause of the great wickedness of those power-hungry folks, yes, those king-men.
But do I really need to go on about this? I reckon we don’t know if y’all are in on the power grab yourselves. We don’t know if you’ve turned traitor on your own country.
Or is it that you’ve turned a blind eye ‘cause you’re nestled in the heart of our land, feelin’ secure, and you ain’t botherin’ to send us food and men to beef up our armies?
Have you plumb forgotten the commandments of the Lord your God? Have you forgotten the hard times our fathers went through? Have you forgotten how many times we’ve been rescued from the grasp of our enemies?
Or do ya think the Lord will still pull off miraculous rescues while you’re sittin' on your fancy thrones, doin’ nothin’ with the means He’s laid out for ya?
Will y’all just lounge around with thousands of folks, tens of thousands even, who’re also sittin’ idle, while there are thousands out on the borders of our land, fightin’ and bleedin’?
Do ya think God will overlook your guilt while you just sit there watchin’ this happen? I tell ya, no way. Now remember this—God said the inside needs to be cleaned up first, then the outside gets it too.
And now, unless you 'fess up to what you’ve done, round up your courage, start sendin’ us food and men, and lend a hand to Helaman so he can hold on to the parts of our land he’s got back, and that we might reclaim what’s left, it’d be wise to hold off on messin’ with the Lamanites till we clean up our own house, yes, even the big boss of our government.
And unless you heed my words, come out and show me some true spirit of freedom, work to shore up our armies, and feed 'em so they can stand, I’ll leave a number of my free folks here to keep this patch of land safe, and I’ll place the strength and blessings of God on ‘em so no other power can step in and cause ‘em trouble—
And that’s ‘cause of their unwavering faith and patience through all their troubles—
I’ll come to you, and if there’s any among ya that still has a fire for freedom, even just a flicker, I’ll stir up some rebellion ‘til those folks tryin’ to grab power and authority are gone for good.
Yep, I’m not scared of your might or your authority, I fear my God; it’s by His commandments that I take up my sword to defend my country, and it’s because of your wrongdoings that we’ve faced so much loss.
Listen up, it’s time, right now, if y’all don’t shake a leg in defendin’ your land and your young’uns, the sword of justice is hangin’ over you; it’s fixin’ to drop and lay waste to you.
I’m here waitin’ for help from you; if you don’t step up to lend a hand, I’ll roll into your town, even the heart of Zarahemla, and take a swing at you with my sword, so you’ll have no more power to block the progress of our folks in our fight for freedom.
For the Lord ain’t gonna let you sit pretty and grow strong in your sins while destroyin’ His righteous people.
Do ya really think the Lord will let you off the hook and come down on the Lamanites when it’s the old ways and grudges of their fathers that feed their hatred, ‘specially when that hate’s been fueled by those who’ve turned away from us, while your wrongs stem from your vanity and love for the empty things of this world?
You know good and well you’re breakin’ God’s laws, and you know you trample ‘em underfoot. The Lord says to me: If those you’ve put in charge as your governors don’t repent of their sins and wrongs, you’ll be called to battle against them.
And now hear me, I, Moroni, am bound by the promise I made to keep the commandments of my God; so I’m askin’ you to stick to God’s word and send me your provisions and men quick-like, and also to Helaman.
And mark my words, if you take your sweet time on this, I’ll be comin’ for ya fast; for God ain’t gonna let us waste away from hunger; He’ll ensure we get your supplies, even if it comes down to us takin’ them by force. So make sure you follow through with the word of God.
So here I stand, I’m Moroni, your chief captain. I ain’t lookin’ for power but rather to bring it down. I ain't searching for worldly honor but for the glory of my God, and the freedom and well-being of my country. And with that, I’ll seal this here letter.
