Well now, it came to be that soon after Moroni shot over a letter to the chief honcho of our land, he got one back from Pahoran, the big boss himself. These are the words that rode back to him:
I, Pahoran, mighty chief of this here territory, am tossin’ these words your way, Moroni, the head wrangler over the army. I gotta tell ya, Moroni, it don’t bring me no pleasure seein’ you in a heap of trouble, it sure tugs at my heartstrings.
But you see, there’s folks out there who are kickin’ up their heels about your troubles, so much so that they’ve taken to rebel against me and the free folks in my camp; and let me tell ya, there’s a whole mess of ‘em.
It’s them scoundrels who’ve been tryin’ to wrest the judgment-seat from my grasp that’ve stirred up this here mess; they’re sweet-talkin’ folks left and right, confident they’ll lead many a heart away, causin’ us all sorts of troubles; they’re holdin’ back our provisions and intimidatin’ our freemen so they ain’t makin’ it your way.
And looky here, they’ve driven me to flee like a coyote before ‘em, and I hightailed it to the land of Gideon, gatherin’ as many good men as I could rustle up.
I’ve sent word far and wide ‘round these parts; reckon folks are flockin' to our side daily, pickin’ up arms to defend their homeland and seekin’ justice for our wrongs.
They’ve rallied to our call, and those rebel rousers are settin’ up a fight that they don’t got the nerve to pursue, reckon they’re plenty scared of us.
They’ve taken hold of the land, or the town, of Zarahemla; they’ve named one of their own as king and he’s shootin’ letters to the king of the Lamanites, makin’ an alliance with him; he figures this pact will help him keep hold of Zarahemla while allowin’ the Lamanites to conquer the rest of our land, so he can sit as king over our folks when they’re brought under Lamanite rule.
Now, in your letter, you called me out on some things, but I ain't bothered; I ain’t mad, I’m happy to see that big ol’ heart of yours. I, Pahoran, don’t crave power, just wanna hang onto my judgment-seat so I can uphold the rights and freedom of my people. My heart’s steadfast in that liberty that God’s givin’ us.
And now, I’ll be damned if we’re gonna let wickedness stomp all over us, even if it turns into a shootin’ match. We wouldn’t take a shot at the Lamanites if they’d just stay in their own territory.
We sure as shootin’ wouldn’t spill the blood of our own kin if they’d quit stirrin’ up trouble and tryin’ to wield the sword against us.
We’d put ourselves in chains if it was God’s will and he commanded us to do so.
But lo and behold, He ain’t tellin’ us to bow to our enemies, but instead to put our trust in Him, and He’ll be our deliverer.
So, my dear brother Moroni, let’s stand against the evil round us, and when we can’t talk ‘em down, like with those rebellions and squabbles, let’s put our swords to work so we can hang onto our freedom and celebrate the grand privilege of our faith, along with our Redeemer and our God.
So hurry on back to me quick-like with some of your men, and leave the rest under Lehi and Teancum’s watch; give ‘em the green light to handle the fightin’ in their part of the land, guided by the Spirit of God, which is also the spirit of freedom that’s in ‘em.
Looky here, I sent a few supplies their way, so they won’t starve while you’re makin’ your way to me.
Round up whatever folks you can on your way here, and we’ll ride out against those dissenters with the strength of the Lord and the faith deep in our hearts.
We’ll reclaim the city of Zarahemla to gather more supplies to send to Lehi and Teancum; yes, we’ll attack ‘em with the strength from on high, and we’ll bring this wickedness to a halt.
Now, Moroni, it warms my heart to get your letter, ‘cause I was a bit rattled about what we oughta do, whether it’d be right to go against our kin.
But you’ve said, if they won’t turn back, the Lord’s given you the go-ahead to take ’em on.
Make sure ya strengthen Lehi and Teancum in the Lord’s name; tell ‘em to stand tall, for God’s gonna see ‘em through, and all those who stick to their liberty that God’s blessed ‘em with. Now I’m signin’ off my letter to you, my dear brother Moroni.
