So it happened that when Moroni got his hands on that letter, his heart swelled with courage and he felt as happy as a lark, all 'cause of Pahoran's loyalty to their freedom and the cause of their land.
But he sure did weep a spell over the wickedness of those scoundrels who had pushed Pahoran outta the judgment-seat, and he mourned for all those who turned their backs on their country and their God.
Then Moroni rounded up a handful of good men, just as Pahoran asked, and handed the reins of the rest of his outfit to Lehi and Teancum, starting his trek towards Gideon.
Wherever Moroni went, he raised the flag of freedom, drumming up every able-bodied man he could find on his journey to Gideon.
Thousands of folks flocked to join his cause, pickin' up their swords to defend their liberty, makin' sure they wouldn't end up shackled.
So, by the time Moroni gathered up all the fighters he could, he rolled into Gideon; joining forces with Pahoran, they became a mighty force, even stronger than Pachus, king of them dissenters who had pushed the freemen outta Zarahemla.
Next, Moroni and Pahoran took their armies down to Zarahemla, and faced down Pachus's men, leading to a mighty showdown.
Yessiree, Pachus was taken down, his crew captured, and Pahoran was rightfully restored to his judgment-seat.
Pachus's men faced the music in court, same as those king-men who had been tossed in the slammer; they were dealt with according to the law—anyone who refused to fight for their country, but picked a fight against it, got the noose.
And so it was deemed necessary to keep that law tight as a drum for the safety of their people; for any man found denyin' their freedom got dealt with quick-like according to the law.
And thus wrapped up the thirtieth year of the judges ruling over Nephites, with Moroni and Pahoran bringing peace back to Zarahemla, takin' down those who weren't true to the cause of liberty.
When the thirty-first year kicked off, Moroni wasted no time gettin' provisions sent out, along with six thousand rustlers to Helaman, to help protect that section of the land.
He also sent another six thousand good ol’ boys, packed with grub, to Lehi and Teancum's armies, fortifying the land against the Lamanites like a trusty wall.
With a hefty number of his folks still in Zarahemla, Moroni and Pahoran set their sights on Nephihah, all set on takin' down the Lamanites in that town.
As they journeyed on, they ran into a good-sized bunch of Lamanites, takin' out a heap of 'em and snaggin' their grub and weapons too.
Once they got the upper hand, they made those wild Lamanites swear they wouldn't pick up their guns against the Nephites ever again.
And after they settled that pact, they shipped 'em off to live among the folks of Ammon, with ‘round four thousand who still had breath in their lungs.
Then it came to pass that once they'd sent those fellas off, they kept marchin' toward Nephihah. Upon arriving at the town, they pitched their camp in the plains right nearby.
Now, Moroni was hopin’ the Lamanites would come out and have it out on the plains, but them Lamanites, catchin’ wind of their fierce courage and enormous numbers, ginned up too much fear and stayed put.
When night fell, Moroni crept out in the dark, climbin' up on the wall to scout where the Lamanites had set up camp.
He found 'em asleep over yonder by the entrance, and once he got back to his men, he had 'em whip up some strong ropes and ladders fast, so they could get down inside that wall.
Moroni led his men up on top of the wall, lettin' 'em down into the city on the west side, where the Lamanites weren’t camped.
With their sturdy ropes and ladders, they all got down into the city under cover of night, and come morning, they were sittin' pretty inside those walls.
When the Lamanites woke up and saw Moroni's men within their walls, they got so scared they high-tailed it outta there.
And when Moroni saw 'em scrammin', he ordered his men to charge after 'em, takin' down a load of 'em and snaggin' a fair batch of prisoners, while the rest scrambled back to the land of Moroni by the seashore.
Thus, Moroni and Pahoran took Nephihah without losing a single one of their own, though many of the Lamanites bit the dust.
At this time, a good number of Lamanite prisoners wanted to join up with the folks of Ammon, lookin' to become free folk.
For those who had that yearnin in their hearts, it was granted to them just as they wished.
So, all the Lamanite captives teamed up with the folks of Ammon, workin' themselves to the bone, tillin' fields, raisin' all sorts of crops, and herdin' animals; this helped lift a heavy load off the Nephites, freein' 'em from the burden of the Lamanite prisoners.
After Moroni had wrestled hold of Nephihah, snagging a whole mess of prisoners that thinned out the Lamanite ranks and bringing back many Nephites who were found, Moroni then set his sights on the land of Lehi.
And when the Lamanites spotted Moroni comin’, they got frightful again and took off before his advancing army.
So, Moroni and his crew chased them from town to town, until they were met up with Lehi and Teancum; the Lamanites shuffled on down toward the seashore until they reached the land of Moroni.
Now all the Lamanite forces huddled together, gatherin’ like ants in the land of Moroni. And wouldn’t ya know it, Ammoron, their king, was amongst 'em too.
Moroni, Lehi, and Teancum set up camp with their armies around the edges of Moroni's land, encircling the Lamanites with wilderness to the south and east.
So there they stayed put for the night. Both the Nephites and Lamanites were worn plumb out from all the marchin', so no one hatched any wild schemes under the stars, except for Teancum; he was mighty ticked off at Ammoron, reckonin' the king and his brother, Amalickiah, were the roots of this long, bloody feud.
In his anger, Teancum snuck into the Lamanite camp, lettin' himself down over the city walls, and moved around real quiet-like, until he found the king, throwin’ a javelin at him that nearly got him in the heart. But alas, the king awoke his men before he drew his last breath, and they chased down Teancum, ending his life.
Now, when Lehi and Moroni caught wind that Teancum had fallen, they sank low in sorrow; for he’d been a valiant fighter for their homeland, a true comrade to liberty, losin’ dear along the way. But here he lay, dead and gone like the morning dew.
Next day, Moroni charged out and took it to the Lamanites, givin' 'em a good thrashin'; they were driven far from the land, not daring to come back at that time against the Nephites.
And thus rolled to a close the thirty-first year of the judges ruling over Nephites, filled with battles, bloodshed, famine, and hardship of all sorts for many years.
There'd been murders, quarrels, and all sorts of trouble among the Nephites; but because of the righteous folks and their prayers, the land was spared.
Sadly, though, the lengthy war had hardened many hearts, while others softened due to their suffering, humbling themselves before God, truly repentant.
After Moroni had shored up the most vulnerable spots against the Lamanites until they stood strong, he headed back to Zarahemla; Helaman retraced his steps to his rightful home; and peace was restored among the Nephite folks once again.
Moroni handed the reins of his army over to his son, Moronihah; then he retired to his home to spend the rest of his days peacefully.
Pahoran climbed back into his judgment-seat, while Helaman resumed preaching the good word to the people of God, for all those wars and fussin' called for some serious order in the church.
So, Helaman and his kin swung into action, preachin' with a forceful spirit that convinced many of their wrongdoings, leading them to repent and be baptized unto their God.
Next thing you know, they got the church of God back on its feet all over the land.
Sure enough, rules and laws were set straight; judges and chief judges were chosen.
The people of Nephi started to thrive again in the land, growin' and multiplying, gettin' strong as an ox once more. They started to amass wealth too.
But for all their riches and might, they didn’t get swelled heads; they kept their eyes on God, humbled themselves deeply before Him.
They recalled the mighty things the Lord had done, how He had saved them from death, bondage, and all kinds of trouble, pullin' them from the grip of their enemies.
And they prayed to their Lord continuously, and as a result, He blessed them just as He promised, makin’ 'em strong and prosperous in the land.
So, these things all went down. And Helaman passed away in the thirty-fifth year of the judges ruling over the Nephites.
