Well now, it happened that Alma rode back from Gideon, after a good spell of teachin' the folks there a whole heap of things that ain't fit to write down, and he set up the church similar to what he did back in Zarahemla. So, he moseyed back home to Zarahemla to catch some much-needed rest from all the hard work he done put in.
And thus wrapped up the ninth year of them judges runnin' the folks over in Nephi.
Then, as the tenths year of them judges got rollin', Alma packed up and made his way over yonder to Melek, which is just west of the Sidon river, on the edge of the wilds.
He started preachin’ to the folks in the land of Melek, stickin’ close to the holy order of God he’d been called to, and he began teachin’ across the whole land of Melek.
Before long, folks showed up from all corners of that territory by the wilds. They were bein’ dunked in the waters all over the place;
And after Alma had wrapped up his work in Melek, he hit the trail, travelin’ three days north of the land of Melek, till he hit a little settlement called Ammonihah.
Now, it was the lay of the land with the Nephites to name their spots and towns after the feller who first laid claim to 'em, and that’s how Ammonihah got its name.
When Alma rode into Ammonihah, he started preachin’ the good word of God to the folks there.
But Satan had really sunk his teeth into the hearts of them Ammonihah folks; they just wouldn’t listen to Alma’s words.
Still, Alma gave it his all, prayin' hard and wrestlin' with God, askin' Him to pour out His Spirit on those folks, hopin’ he could baptize 'em in repentance.
But they just dug in their heels, saying: "Look here, we know who you are, Alma; we know you’re the high priest over that church you got goin’ in lots of places, according to your fancy traditions; but we ain't in your church, and we ain't buyin' into your foolishness."
And they crowed about how, not bein’ in his church meant he had no sway over 'em; and they hollered that he had given up the judgment seat to Nephihah, so he ain’t the top dog around here.
Once they finished spittin’ words at him, revilin’ and throwin’ him outta their town, he saddled up and took off toward another little spot called Aaron.
As he was makin’ his way there, weighed down with sorrow and trudgin’ through a heap of trouble and grief over the wickedness of Ammonihah’s people, lo and behold, an angel of the Lord showed up, sayin’:
“Alma, you're blessed; lift your head and rejoice, ‘cause you got plenty to be happy about; you've kept the commandments since you first got the message from God. I’m the one who delivered it to ya."
"And I’m here to tell ya to head back to Ammonihah and preach to them once more; yes, tell ‘em, if they don’t repent, the Lord God will wipe ‘em out.”
“For right now, they're schemin’ to squash the freedom of your people, contrary to the laws and commands the Lord set up for ‘em.”
Well, after Alma got his orders from that angel, he skedaddled back to Ammonihah real quick. He breezed into the town through another way, comin' in from the south side.
When he hit the town, hunger pangs hit him like a rattler bite, so he asked a fellow: “Can ya spare a bite for a humble servant of God?”
And the feller replied: “I’m a Nephite, and I reckon you’re a holy prophet of God, ‘cause an angel sent word that you’d be showin’ up. Join me at my place, and I’ll fix you some grub; I know you’ll be a blessing for me and my household.”
So, the fella welcomed him into his home, and his name was Amulek; he brought out bread and meat and set it down in front of Alma.
Alma dug into that bread, fillin' his belly, and blessed Amulek and his household, givin’ thanks to God.
Once he was done chowin’ down, he told Amulek: “I’m Alma, the high priest over God’s church all through this land.”
“Now, I’ve been called to spread the good word of God to all these folks, speakin’ through the spirit of revelation and prophecy; back when I was here, they wouldn’t have me and kicked me out, makin’ me think I’d never set foot in this land again.”
"But, lo and behold, I was told to turn back and testify against these folks about their wickedness.”
“And now, Amulek, since you took me in and fed me, you’re blessed; I was real hungry, havin’ fasted many a day.”
Alma hung around with Amulek for quite a spell before he started preachin’ to the people.
And as time went on, the folks got deeper in their sinful ways.
Then the word came to Alma, sayin’: “Go; and tell my good buddy Amulek to get out there and prophesy to these people, sayin’—Repent, for the Lord says, unless you turn away from your sins, I’ll come among you in my anger, and I won’t back down.”
So Alma and Amulek both headed out among the people to share God’s word, filled with the Holy Spirit.
They were given so much power, they couldn’t be locked up in dungeons, and no man could take their lives; but they didn’t flex their muscles until they were bound up and tossed into prison. This was all so the Lord could show His might through ‘em.
Then they headed out, preachin’ and prophesyin’ to the folks, sharing the spirit and power granted to ‘em by the Lord.
