The words of Alma, along with Amulek's, got shouted out to the folks livin’ in Ammonihah. They ended up in the hoosegow, but thanks to the mighty hand of God, they got out, just like the record says.
Comprising the tales for the next chapters through 14.
Alma tells the people of Ammonihah to come to their senses—The Good Lord’s gonna take it easy on the Lamanites in the last days—If the Nephites turn their backs on the light, them Lamanites will rain down destruction—The Son of God’s fixin’ to come soon—He’ll save those who turn their life around, get dunked, and trust in His name. 'Bout 82 B.C.
Now listen up, I, Alma, got a divine order from the Almighty to grab Amulek and head out to preach to these folks, the ones in Ammonihah. As I started layin’ it down for ‘em, they fired back, sayin’:
Who the heck are ya? Ya reckon we’ll buy what a lone ranger says, even if he preaches that the whole dang earth’s gonna go belly-up?
They were just too thick-headed to catch the drift; didn't know that the earth could truly kick the bucket.
And they hollered: We ain't buyin' your story if you predict that this mighty town'll go up in smoke by sundown.
They just plain didn’t grasp that the Almighty could work such wild wonders, bein’ a tough-skinned and stubborn bunch.
And they demanded: Who is this God, sendin' just one fella to lay down the truth about such huge and wondrous happenings?
They was fixin’ to grab me, but lo and behold, they didn’t lay a finger on me. I stood tall and made it clear, sure as shootin’:
Look here, you wicked and twisted folks, how’d ya forget the ways of your forefathers? Y’all have tossed aside the Almighty’s commands quicker than a rattlesnake strike.
Aren't y’all rememberin’ how our old man Lehi got yanked out of Jerusalem by the mighty hand of God? Y’all can’t have forgotten how he led everyone through the wilds, can ya?
And you forgot real quick how many times he saved our forebears from their enemies, keepin’ ‘em from bein’ wiped off the map by their own family?
Yeah, if it wasn’t for His unmatched power, mercy, and patience towards us, we woulda been dust on the wind long before now, maybe even sent to a place of endless sorrow and pain.
So listen close, I’m tellin’ you straight that He’s demandin’ ya to turn your ways; and if ya don’t, you ain't ever gonna see His kingdom. But that ain’t all—He’s givin’ you a real strong warning; you turn a blind eye, and He’ll wipe you off the face of this earth; He won’t be swayed by His fury.
Now, don’t y’all remember the words He laid down for Lehi, sayin’ that if you keep my commands, you’ll thrive in the land? And what’s more, He also said that if you don’t, you’ll be kicked outta His presence.
Now, pay heed; remember that the Lamanites have strayed from God’s commands, so they’ve been cut off from Him. We see the Word come to pass, and the Lamanites have been separated from His presence since they started their mischief in the land.
But I reckon it’ll be easier for them come judgment day than it will be for you, if you keep on in your sins; and it’ll be easier for them in this life too, unless y’all come clean.
There are plenty of promises waiting for the Lamanites; it’s their old traditions that keep ‘em in the dark. So, the Lord's gonna be nice to 'em and give ‘em some extra time in the land.
Soon enough, they'll be brought around to believe in His word and recognize how wrong their forefathers were; many of ‘em will find salvation ‘cause the Lord’s gracious to anyone who calls on His name.
But here’s the deal: if you keep wallowin’ in your wicked ways, your days in this fine land ain’t gonna last; the Lamanites will come to pay you a visit when you least expect it, and you’ll face utter destruction, all by the Lord’s fierce wrath.
He won’t let ya keep livin’ in your wrongdoings and wipe out His people. I’d say nay; He’d sooner let the Lamanites wipe out all ya Nephites, if it meant you’d keep on with your sins after seein’ so much light and knowledge handed to ya by the Lord your God.
Yep, after bein’ such a blessed people; favored above every other tribe, tongue, or nation; after havin’ all things revealed to ‘em, according to their wants, faith, and prayers, about what has been and what’s to come.
They’ve been touchin’ the Spirit of God; talkin’ with angels, and hearin’ the voice of the Lord; full of the spirit of prophecy and revelation, with all sorts of gifts—like gabbin’ in different tongues, preachin’, and havin’ the Holy Ghost, and even translation skills.
Sure as shootin’, after gettin’ pulled outta Jerusalem by the Almighty’s hand; saved from hunger, sickness, and all sorts of nasty diseases; becoming strong in combat so they wouldn’t be wiped out; time and again freed from bondage and kept safe till now; they’ve prospered and grown rich in all kinds of good things—
And now, I’m tellin’ you, if this crowd, who’s been given so many blessings from the Lord, goes and turns against the light and knowledge they’ve got, I’ll say it plain: If they stray off the path, it’ll be way easier for the Lamanites than for them.
'Cause the Lord’s promises are lined up for the Lamanites, but they won’t be for you if you choose to rebel; hasn’t the Lord made it crystal clear that if you turn against Him, you’ll be wiped from the face of the earth?
And this is why, so you don’t end up destroyed, the Lord’s sent His angels to visit many of His people, tellin’ ‘em they gotta charge forth and shout loudly to you, sayin’: Turn around, ‘cause the kingdom of heaven is mighty close.
In just a few days, the Son of God’s comin’ in His glory; and His glory will be that of the Only Begotten of the Father, full of grace, fairness, and truth, brimming with patience, mercy, and long-suffering, ready to hear His people’s pleas and answer their prayers.
And you better believe He’s here to save those who get baptized in repentance, puttin’ their faith in His name.
So, make your path straight for the Lord, 'cause the time’s comin’ when all folks are gonna reap the rewards of their actions—if they’ve done right, they’re gonna find salvation for their souls, thanks to the grace and power of Jesus Christ; if they’ve done wrong, they’ll pay the price for their wickedness, and the devil will have ‘em.
Now listen up, this here's the angel’s voice, callin’ out to the folks.
And now, my dear brothers, for you’re my kinfolk, and you oughtta be practiced in love, and you should do works that match your repentance since your hearts have turned to stone against the word of God, and you’re just a lost and fallen people.
Then it came to pass that when I, Alma, finished speakin’, the folks got real riled up with me for callin’ ‘em hard-hearted and stiff-necked.
And because I said they were lost and fallen, they were fit to be mad at me, lookin’ to grab me and toss me in the slammer.
But the Lord didn’t let 'em take me and lock me up at that moment.
And then Amulek stepped up, ready to preach to ‘em too. Don’t you know, Amulek’s whole message ain’t scribbled down, but some of his words made their way into this book.
