Now listen up, I’m Mormon, and I’m settin' down a record of all the things I’ve laid eyes on and my ears have heard, callin' it the Book of Mormon.
Well, around the time ol’ Ammaron stashed away them records for the Big Guy above, he rode up to me when I was about ten—started pickin’ up a thing or two about what my kinfolk knew—and Ammaron says to me, “I reckon you’re a serious young’un, quick on the draw when it comes to observin’ things.”
So when you hit the ripe ol’ age of twenty-four, I want ya to keep in mind everything you’ve seen ‘round these parts; and when that day comes, hightail it over to the land of Antum, to a hill they’re fixin’ to call Shim, where I’ve put all them sacred engravings for the Lord.
And just so you know, you gotta grab hold of the Nephi plates for yourself, but leave the rest where they are; and be sure to carve into those plates all the things you’ve grasped from our folks.
And I, Mormon, bein’ a direct descendant of Nephi—my old man’s name was Mormon too—kept all them things that Ammaron laid on me in mind.
Well, y’know, when I was eleven summers old, my pa took me down south to the land called Zarahemla.
The whole land had sprouted buildings like weeds, and there were folks everywhere, thicker than sand on the shore.
And it happened that year, a shootin' war broke out 'tween the Nephites, which included the Jacobites, Josephites, and Zoramites, and on the other side, the Lamanites, Lemuelites, and Ishmaelites.
The Lamanites, Lemuelites, and Ishmaelites were all lumped together as Lamanites, while the other side, well, they called themselves Nephites.
Shore enough, the war kicked off in the borders of Zarahemla, down by the waters of Sidon.
Well, the Nephites rustled up a big ol’ crowd, more'n thirty thousand strong. And in that same year, they had their share of battles, where the Nephites got the upper hand and took down a whole mess of Lamanites.
Then the Lamanites pulled back their plans, and peace rode into town; things settled down for about four years without a single drop of blood spilt.
But wickedness was runnin’ rampant all over the land, so the Lord packed up His favored disciples, and the miracles and healings came to a screechin’ halt, all 'cause of the folks’ sinning ways.
Gifts from the Lord dried up, and the Holy Spirit wasn’t touchin’ a soul on account of all that wickedness and doubt.
At fifteen, with my head on straight some, the Lord came a-callin’, and I got a taste of the goodness of Jesus.
I tried to preach to these folks, but my lips got sealed, and I wasn’t allowed to say a word; they had turned their backs on their God, and because of their misdeeds, all them beloved disciples were sent away.
I stayed with ‘em, but was still kept from preachin', thanks to the hard hearts they carried, and because of that hard-heartedness, the land got cursed for their sakes.
And them Gadianton robbers, lingerin’ round the Lamanites, started creepin’ all over, makin’ the folks stash their treasure in the ground; they became slippery, 'cause the Lord had cursed the land, and they'd lost hold on their good stuff.
And lo and behold, sorcery and witchcraft started spreadin', along with all kinds of magic; the power of the evil one was sittin’ heavy over the whole land, just like Abinadi and Samuel the Lamanite foretold.
