Well now, it came to pass that them Lamanites weren't keen on throwin' down again until ten whole years rolled on by. And I reckon I had my boys, the Nephites, busy settin’ up their fields and sharp’nin’ their arms for the next round of fightin'.
Then the good Lord spoke to me: Yell out to these folks—Tell 'em to turn their ways around, come follow me, and get themselves dipped in water, and raise up my church again, and they'll be spared the troubles ahead.
I hollered at ‘em, but it was like shoutin' at a stone wall; they didn't see that it was the Lord who had kept 'em safe and gave 'em a shot at makin’ things right. No, sir, they just stiffened their necks against the good Lord.
And it came to pass after that tenth year drifted by, makin' it a full three hundred sixty years since the good Lord walked this earth, the king of them Lamanites sent me a note lettin’ me know they were fixin’ to come at us again.
So I gathered my folks together down at the land called Desolation, roundin' ‘em up in a city right near the narrow pass leadin’ south.
There, we set our armies to stop the Lamanites from takin’ any more of our lands; we got ourselves fortified real good against ‘em.
In the three hundred sixty-first year, those Lamanites came down to the city of Desolation to start another ruckus, and wouldn’t you know it, we thumped 'em so good they high-tailed it back to their own neck of the woods.
Then came the three hundred sixty-second year, and they decided to try their luck again. And we gave 'em another beatin', takin’ down a heap of 'em, tossin’ their dead right into the sea.
Now, ‘cause of this big ol’ thing my people, the Nephites, pulled off, they started struttin' around, all puffed up with pride about their own strength, swearin' to the skies they’d get even for their brothers who'd been put down by the enemy.
And they swore by the heavens and the big ol’ throne of God that they'd march against 'em, ready to wipe 'em off the map.
Then I, Mormon, made up my mind, I wasn’t gonna be a commander nor a leader no more, on account of their wicked ways and abominable acts.
You see, I had led 'em time and time again into battle, even with all their wrongdoings, lovin' ‘em with a heart full of God's love; my soul had been laid bare in prayer all day long for 'em; but still, it was without faith, ‘cause their hearts were as hard as a rock.
Thrice I pulled 'em from the clutches of their enemies, and each time, they just wouldn’t come around to repentin’ of their sins.
And when they swore by everything that our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ warned ‘em against, that they’d march forth against their enemies to avenge their fallen kinfolk, behold, I heard the voice of the Lord come to me, sayin':
Vengeance is mine, and I'll settle the score; since this folks wouldn’t turn from their sinful ways after I had rescued 'em, behold, they'll be cut off from the face of this here earth.
So I flatly refused to take my chances against my enemies; I did just as the Lord told me to do; I stood there like a silent witness to show the world what I saw and heard, by the Spirit that testified of things to come.
Hence, I’m writin’ to you folks, Gentiles, and you too, house of Israel, when the time comes 'round, you best be gettin’ ready to head back to your rightful land;
Yup, listen here, I’m scribblin’ to all corners of the earth; yup, to you twelve tribes of Israel, who'll be judged for your deeds by them twelve folks Jesus picked out in Jerusalem.
And I’m also writin’ to the remnant of this people, who’ll be judged by the twelve whom Jesus chose here in our land; they'll also be judged by the other twelve whom Jesus chose in Jerusalem.
And the Spirit's been showin’ me these truths; that’s why I’m penning this all down for you. For this reason I write, that y’all may know that everyone’s gonna stand before the judgment seat of Christ, every single soul from Adam’s big ol' family; and ya gotta be judged for what you done, whether it’s good or whether it’s bad;
And also so you can believe the gospel of Jesus Christ, which y’all will have among ya; and don’t forget, the Jews, the chosen folks of the Lord, will be given other witnesses besides the one they watched and heard, that Jesus, the one they put down, was the true Messiah and the very God.
And I sure wish I could convince all you folks at the ends of the earth to turn your ways 'round and get ready to stand before the judgment seat of Christ.
