Well now, I ventured out among the Nephites, and I went and took back the promise I’d made not to help 'em no more; they rustled me back into leadin’ their armies again, reckonin' I could pull 'em outta the mess they found themselves in.
But I gotta say, I was feelin' as low as a snake in a wagon rut, 'cause I knew the Lord’s reckonin’ was about to rain down on 'em; they weren’t turning from their wicked ways, but they fought for their lives without hollerin' out to the Big Guy who made 'em.
Then lo and behold, the Lamanites came at us again while we was hightailin' it to the city of Jordan; but wouldn't ya know it, they got turned back and didn’t take that city at that time.
Next thing you know, they came after us once more, and we stood our ground in that city. Other towns were held strong by the Nephites, creatin’ barriers that kept the Lamanites from barging into our neck of the woods.
But here’s the kicker: any land we passed where folks weren't gathered up got toasted by the Lamanites, and their towns, villages, and cities went up in flames; and just like that, three hundred and seventy-nine years slipped on by.
Then in the three-hundred and eightieth year, those Lamanites came at us for another round, and we stood tall against 'em; but it was all for naught, 'cause there were so many of 'em that they trampled the Nephites like dry leaves.
So, we took to our heels again, and those who could run faster than the Lamanites got away, while the rest, well, let’s just say they didn’t make it.
And now listen here, I, Mormon, ain't lookin' to stir up a heap of hurtin' in folks by showin' 'em a bloody mess like I had to see; but I know these tales need tellin’, and the truth gotta come out in broad daylight—
And also, the folks left behind gotta know this, as well as the Gentiles, who the Lord said ought to scatter this bunch, and that this lot ain't worth a lick in their eyes—so I’m puttin’ this here little summary together, not daring to spill all that I’ve witnessed, due to the orders I’ve been given, and 'cause I don't want y’all to carry too heavy a heart seein’ how wicked this crowd’s become.
Now hear me well, this message is for their descendants and the Gentiles who care about the folks of Israel, to understand and recognize where their blessings come from.
‘Cause I know those folks gonna grieve over the troubles of Israel; yes indeed, they’ll mourn for this people’s downfall; they’ll mourn that this lot didn't change their ways so they could be embraced by Jesus himself.
Now these words are written for the remnant of Jacob’s kin; and they’re penned this way ‘cause God knows that wickedness won't bring any good to 'em; and they’re tucked away for the Lord to pull out when the time’s right.
And this here’s the order I’ve received; and mark my words, they'll come out just as the Lord commands, when He sees it fit in His wisdom.
And they’ll go to the nonbelievin' Jews; and the aim is to convince 'em that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of the livin’ God; so that through His beloved, the Father can fulfill His long-term plan, bringin’ the Jews and all of Israel back to their promised land, which the Lord gave ‘em, fulfillin' His covenant;
And let's not forget that the seed of this people needs to truly grasp the gospel, which shall be shared with ‘em by the Gentiles; ‘cause this crowd’s gonna be scattered, and they’ll end up a dark, filthy, and loathsome bunch, worse than what we ever saw, even worse than those Lamanites, all because of their disbelief and idol-worship.
‘Cause the Spirit of the Lord has already stopped wrestlin’ with their forefathers; they’re wanderin’ without Christ and God in their lives; and they’re blown about like chaff in the wind.
They used to be a joyful lot, with Christ as their shepherd; they were brought along by none other than God the Father himself.
But now, take a gander, they’re led ‘round by Satan, just like chaff blowin’ with the wind, or like a ship tossed about on the waves without no sail or anchor, or any means to steer; and just like that ship, so are they.
And behold, the Lord has been savin’ up their blessings for the Gentiles who’ll settle the land.
But mark my words, they’re gonna get driven and scattered by the Gentiles; and once they’re all spread out, the Lord will recall the covenant He made with Abraham and all the descendants of Israel.
And don’t forget, the Lord will also remember the righteous prayers that have been lifted up for ‘em.
So now, listen close, O Gentiles, how can you stand tall before the might of God, unless you repent and turn from your wicked ways?
Don’t you know you’re in the palms of God? Don’t you realize He holds all power, and with a mere word, the earth’ll roll up like a scroll?
So, turn around and humble yourselves before Him, or expect Him to come back at ya with the justice of a thousand storms—lest a remnant of Jacob’s kin come at ya like a lion, and tear ya to shreds, with no one to save ya.
