Well now, I reckon I've wrapped up my tale 'bout the downfall of my kinfolk, the Nephites. Sure enough, we set out marchin' right into the path of the Lamanites.
So there I was, Mormon, penning a letter to the chief of the Lamanites, askin' him to let us gather our folks in the land of Cumorah, which sat by a hill also named Cumorah, so we could throw down with 'em.
The Lamanite king, bless his heart, gave me the go-ahead to do just that.
Next thing you know, we’re marchin’ on over to Cumorah, pitchin' our tents 'round that hill; it was in a land rich with water, rivers, and springs, and we figured we had a shot at gainin' the upper hand on them Lamanites.
Fast forward three hundred eighty-four years, and we’d rustled up all the rest of our folk to Cumorah.
Well, when we finally got all our folks gathered together in the land of Cumorah, I started feelin' my age settlin’ in; knowin' it was the last stand for my people, and the good Lord told me not to let our sacred records fall into Lamanite hands (which they’d surely destroy), I took those records made from the plates of Nephi and hid 'em up in the hill Cumorah, all except for a handful of plates I handed down to my boy Moroni.
Then it happened my people, with their wives and little ones, laid their eyes on the Lamanite armies comin' toward 'em; they were filled with that dreadful fear of death that grips all the wicked, waitin' to face 'em.
Sure enough, the Lamanites charged at us, and every soul felt a chill run down their spine 'cause of how many there were.
They came down on my people hard with swords, bows, arrows, axes, and every other sort of warfare.
Before long, my men were cut down, 'specially my ten thousand who were at my side, and I got myself a wound right in the mix of it; yet they passed by me, not finishin’ me off.
After they’d dispatched all my people, there were only twenty-four of us left (counting my son Moroni), and as we looked on the mornin’ after, when the Lamanites had returned to their camps, from the top of hill Cumorah, we saw my ten thousand folks who'd been taken down, and I was leadin’ the way.
We also spied the ten thousand who had my boy Moroni at the helm.
And lo and behold, Gidgiddonah's ten thousand had hit the dust, and he himself was right there in the thick of it.
Lamah crumpled alongside his ten thousand; Gilgal fell with his ten thousand; Limhah too, and the same for Jeneum; Cumenihah, Moronihah, Antionum, Shiblom, Shem, and Josh all went down with ten thousand each.
And then there were ten more who took a tumble by the sword, each with their ten thousand; all my people were wiped out except those twenty-four with me, and a few who made a break for the south and some who switched sides to join the Lamanites; there they lay, flesh, bones, and blood strewn across the ground, abandoned by those who did the deed, left to rot under the sun, returnin' to the earth.
My heart was crushed with grief for the fallen of my folk, and I yelled:
Oh you fair ones, how could ya turn from the Lord’s path! Oh you fair ones, why'd ya have to shove away Jesus, who stood there with arms wide open, ready to take ya in!
If only ya hadn’t done this, you wouldn’t be in this mess. But now look at ye, fallen, and I’m just mournin’ your loss.
Oh you fair sons and daughters, fathers and mothers, husbands and wives, how could this happen to you!
But alas, you’ve vanished, and my heartache won’t bring you back.
And soon enough, the day’ll come that y’all must trade this mortal shell for immortality, and these bodies, which are now decaying, will be made incorruptible; and you’ll stand before the judgment seat of Christ, answerin’ for your deeds; and if you end up bein’ righteous, well then you’ll be blessed together with your forebears.
Oh, that you had turned things 'round before this great calamity struck you. But here you are, gone, and the Almighty Father up in Heaven knows your condition; and He doeth with you according to His justice and mercy.
