Now listen up, I reckon it’s high time I laid some wisdom on the folks who are left standing, if the Good Lord sees fit to grant me the chance to share some words with ya, so ya can catch wind of the tales of your kin; that’s right, I’m talking to you folks, the remnant of Israel; here’s what I got to say:
Y’all best remember you’re part of the house of Israel.
You gotta know it’s time to turn away from your wrongdoings, or there ain't no hope of makin' it to salvation.
You folks need to toss aside your guns and stop revelin' in bloodshed, and don’t go pickin’ ‘em up again ‘less the Almighty gives the word.
You gotta get wise to the stories of your ancestors, turn from your misdeeds, and put your faith in Jesus Christ, who’s the Son of God and was done in by the Jews, but by the Father’s might, he rose up again, takin’ the sting outta death; he’s conquered the grave, you see.
He’ll be the one to bring back the dead, so folks must rise up to stand before His mighty judgment seat.
He’s pulled off the grand deal of redeeming the world; anyone who’s found clean when the day of reckoning rolls around gets to be in the presence of God in His kingdom, singing praises forevermore with the heavenly hosts, to the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost, which are all rolled into one God, livin’ in joy that never runs dry.
So you better turn from your ways, get dunked in the name of Jesus, and grab a hold of the gospel of Christ that’s being laid out for ya, not only in this here record but also in the scroll that’s coming your way from the Gentiles, deriving from the Jews.
For this here is written so you can have faith; and if ya believe that, then you'll also believe this; and if you believe this, you’ll learn about your forebears and the astonishing deeds done by the hand of God among ‘em.
And you’ll come to know you’re part of Jacob’s lineage; so you’re counted among the folks of the first covenant; and if you put your trust in Christ and get baptized, first in water and then through fire and the Holy Ghost, just like our Savior instructed, you’ll be sittin' pretty on judgment day. Amen.
