Now I'm a-goin' to spin a tale ‘bout them folks who ain't got the belief in Christ.
Well now, when the good Lord comes a-visitin'—you gots to reckon, when that big day rolls ‘round and the earth's rolled up like an old scroll, when the very elements are melted by one mighty hot flame—on that grand occasion, are you really gonna stand before the Lamb of God and holler that there ain't no God?
Then you're gonna keep on denyin' Christ, or can you even look upon the Lamb of God? You reckon you can sit with him while feelin' guilty 'bout all your wrongdoings? Do you really think you could find any happiness bein' next to that holy fella while your soul's stirrin' 'round with the guilt for breakin' the laws?
Listen here, I reckon it’d be a heap more miserable to be near a holy and just God, knowing you’re all filthy in his sight, than to be with the damned souls in that terrible place called hell.
For when you face the Almighty, and see your nakedness before Him, and then see the glory of God, and the holiness of Jesus Christ, it’s gonna ignite an unquenchable fire in ya.
So, all you disbelievers, turn towards the Lord; cry mightily to the Father in the name of Jesus, hopin' you might be found clean, pure as the driven snow, all scrubbed up by the blood of the Lamb on that final day.
Now, I’m talkin' to you folks who give the cold shoulder to God’s revelations, claimin’ they’re done away with, thinkin' there ain't no more prophecies, gifts, or any healings, and no speakin’ with tongues or understandin' of tongues;
Listen up, I say, if you're denyin' these things, you ain't got a clue ‘bout the gospel of Christ; you ain’t read the scriptures right at all; and if you did, you surely don’t understand ‘em.
Ain’t we read that God’s the same yesterday, today, and forever, and there ain’t no shadows of change in Him?
Now, if you gone and made up a god who changes, who has shadows of change, then you got a god who ain't no God of miracles worth his salt.
But I’m fixin' to show ya the God of miracles, just like the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob; that same God who made the heavens and the earth, and everything in ‘em.
He made Adam, and it was Adam’s fall that brought trouble on humankind. ‘Cause of this fall came Jesus Christ, the Father and the Son; and thanks to Jesus, we got redemption for mankind.
And that redemption, thanks to Christ, brings folks back into the presence of the Lord; this is how all are saved, ‘cause the death of Christ brings about the resurrection, waking folks from that endless sleep, and everyone’s gonna rise when the trumpet sounds; both the big and the little will stand before his judgment bar, all redeemed and free from that eternal hangman’s noose of death, which is just a temporary death, mind you.
Then comes the judgment from the Holy One; the time will arrive when the filthy will still be filthy; the righteous will be righteous still; those who are happy will find happiness; and the unhappy will still be unhappy.
Now, all you folks who’ve conjured up a god who don’t do no miracles, I’m askin' ya, has all that I’ve laid out passed away? Has the end come yet? I say "Nay," and God ain't stopped bein' a God of miracles.
Ain’t the works of God blowin’ your mind? Yessiree, who can fully understand the marvels He’s done?
Who can claim it wasn't a miracle when by His word the heavens and earth came to be, and man was formed from dirt with His powerful word, and miracles came about ‘cause of that same word?
And who dares say that Jesus didn’t pull off a heap of mighty miracles? Many a miracle was done through the hands of the apostles.
And if there were miracles back then, why’d God stop bein' the God of miracles while stayin’ unchangeable? I tell ya, He’s changeless; if He changed, He wouldn’t be God, and He don’t cease to be God, and He keeps on bein’ a God of miracles.
And the reason He’s not workin' miracles amongst us is ‘cause folks have shrank back in disbelief, wanderin' off the right path, and they don't know the God they oughta trust.
Listen up, I’m tellin’ ya that whoever has faith in Christ, doubtin’ nothin’, whatever they ask the Father in Christ’s name, it’ll be givin’ to ‘em; and this promise is for everyone, even to the ends of the earth.
For Jesus, the Son of God, told his disciples who were stayin’ behind, and all his followers while a crowd listened: Go on out into the wide world, and preach the good word to every creature;
And those who believe and get baptized will find salvation, but those who don’t believe will end up in trouble;
And these signs will tag along behind those who believe—in my name they'll throw out devils; they'll jabber in new tongues; they'll pick up snakes, and if they drink anything deadly, it won’t harm ‘em; they’ll lay hands on the sick, and those folks will get better;
And whosoever believes in my name, doubting not a bit, I’ll stand by every word I’ve said, even till the ends of the earth.
Now, tell me, who can stand against the works of the Lord? Who can deny His words? Who’s gonna rise against the almighty power of the Lord? Who would scoff at the Lord’s handiwork? Who’d look down on the children of Christ? All you scoffers, you’re bound to be filled with wonder and meet your doom.
So don’t you go a-scoffin’, and don’t you go a-wonderin’, but listen to the word of the Lord, and ask the Father in Jesus’ name for whatever you find yourself needin’. Don’t doubt, be full of faith, just like in the olden days, come to the Lord with all you got, and work out your salvation with fear and trembling before Him.
Be smart in these days of trial; clean us up real good; don’t ask just to waste it on your lustful wants, but ask with a steadfast heart, that you ain’t gonna yield to temptation, but serve the true and livin’ God.
Make sure you ain't gettin' baptized unworthily; don’t take the sacrament of Christ unworthy-like; but make sure you do all things with worthiness, and do ‘em in the name of Jesus Christ, the Son of the living God; and if you follow this path and endure till the end, you won’t be tossed out.
I’m speakin’ to you like I’m shoutin’ from beyond the grave; for I know you'll have my words.
Don’t go condemnmin’ me for my faults, nor my father for his, nor those who wrote before him; but rather, be thankful to God for showin’ you our imperfections so you might learn to be wiser than what we’ve been.
Now, we wrote this here record with all we know, using what we call reformed Egyptian, handed down and tweaked in our own chatter.
If our plates had been bigger, we woulda written in Hebrew, but we had to adjust that Hebrew too, and if we had busted out in Hebrew, you wouldn’t find no flaws in our record.
But the Lord knows every word we’ve put down, and that none but us understands our lingo; and since there’s no one else who gets our language, He’s set up ways for it to be interpreted.
These words are writ to shake off the blood of our brethren who’ve wandered away in disbelief.
And, hey, these prayers we’ve wished for our brethren, even their return to the knowledge of Christ, are in line with the prayers of all the saints that’ve ever called this land home.
May the Lord Jesus Christ see fit that their prayers be answered as per their faith; may God the Father hold tight to the covenant He made with the house of Israel; and may He shower them with blessings forever, through faith in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
