A testimony of the Book of Mormon comes by the power of the Holy Ghost—Folks get them Spirit gifts when they stay faithful—Spiritual gifts are always hangin’ around faith—Moroni’s words talkin’ from the dirt—Come on over to Christ, get all fixed up in Him, and clean up your souls. 'Bout A.D. 421.
Well now, I reckon I, Moroni, writin' what I think is right, and I'm writin' to my kin, the Lamanites; and I want 'em to know that it's been more than four hundred and twenty years since that sign got given about Christ comin’.
And here I am, sealing up these records after I say a few things to you.
Now listen up, I wanna urge ya that when ya read this here stuff, if it’s God’s wisdom that ya should take a look at it, you better remember how kind the Lord’s been to folks since Adam was around all the way up ‘til you get these words, and think on it real hard in your hearts.
And when you get hold of this here, I’d urge ya to ask God, the Eternal Father, in Jesus' name, if these things ain’t true; and if you ask with a heartfelt soul, really meaning it, havin’ faith in Christ, He’ll show you the truth of it, through the power of the Holy Spirit.
And with that Holy Spirit, you can know the truth 'bout all things.
Now whatever’s good is just and true; so, nothin’ that’s good turns its back on Christ, but gives a tip o' the hat that He’s real.
And you can know He is, by the power of the Holy Spirit; so I’d implore ya not to deny the power of God; He’s workin’ through folks according to their faith, the same today, tomorrow, and forever.
And once more, I urge y’all, my brothers, don’t turn away the gifts from God, 'cause they’re plenty; and they all come from the same God. There’s all sorts of ways these gifts get handed out; but it’s the same God doin’ it all; given through the Spirit of God to folks, to help 'em out.
For see here, one person gets to share the wisdom of the Word;
And another’s teachin’ the knowledge by that same Spirit;
And another’s got a heap of faith; and another’s got them healings by that same Spirit;
And again, there’s another that gets to work mighty miracles;
And then there’s another, prophesyin' about all sorts of stuff;
And again, there's one seein’ angels and them spirits helpin’ out;
And again, there’s another that speaks in a whole mess of languages;
And once more, another gets to interpret those languages and different tongues.
And all these gifts come from the Spirit of Christ; and they’re given to each person as they can take it.
And I tell ya, my dear brothers, remember that every good gift comes from Christ.
And I wanna remind ya that He’s the same yesterday, today, and forever; and all them gifts I mentioned, the spiritual ones, ain't gonna fade away, long as the world’s around, 'cept for the doubt of folks.
So, there's gotta be faith; and if there’s faith, then there’s gotta be hope; and if there’s hope, there’s gotta be charity.
And if ya ain’t got charity, then ya can’t be saved in God's kingdom; and if ya ain't got faith, you ain’t gonna be saved there neither; and if ya got no hope, well, you ain't gonna make it either.
And if you ain’t got hope, then you sure are gonna be in despair; and despair comes 'round 'cause of sin.
And Jesus said to our folks: If ya got faith, you can do all sorts of things I need done.
And now I’m talkin’ to everyone far and wide—if the day comes when the power and gifts of God are no more among ya, it’ll be 'cause of doubt.
And woe betide the children of men if that’s how it is; 'cause there won’t be no good folks left, not one. If there’s just one good person among you, they’re doin’ it through the power and gifts of God.
And woe to them who toss all these aside and die, 'cause they’ll pass away in their sins, and they ain't gonna be saved in God's kingdom; and I say this ‘cause Christ said it; I ain't lyin’.
And I wanna urge you to keep these things in mind; 'cause the time's comin’ quick when you’ll see I ain’t lying, 'cause you’ll see me at God’s judgment bar; and the Lord God’s gonna ask ya: Didn’t I tell ya my words through this man, like someone hollerin’ from the dead, like speakin’ outta the dust?
I’m sayin’ all this to fulfill the prophecies. And look, they’re gonna come straight from the mouth of the everlasting God; and His words are gonna keep passin’ down through the generations.
And God’s gonna show ya that what I wrote is the real deal.
And one more time, I urge ya to come to Christ, grab on to every good gift, and don’t you dare touch the bad stuff, nor anything dirty.
And get up and shake off the dust, O Jerusalem; yeah, and put on your finest clothes, O daughter of Zion; and shore up your stakes and spread your borders wide forever, so you won't be ashamed anymore, that the promises of the Eternal Father He made to ya, O house of Israel, can come true.
Yeah, come to Christ, and get all fixed up in Him, and ditch all that ungodly stuff; and if you turn away from that ungodliness, and love God with all your heart, mind, and strength, then His grace is enough for ya, 'cause through His grace, you can be perfect in Christ; and if you get that grace from God, you can’t deny His power.
And if you’re perfect in Christ by God’s grace, and don’t deny His power, then you’re made holy in Christ by God’s grace, through the blood of Christ, which is in the Father’s covenant for the washing away of your sins, so you become clean as a whistle.
And now I’ll take my leave. I’m fixin’ to rest in God’s paradise, 'til my spirit and body get back together, and I’m brought forth mighty through the air, to meet you up at the sweet judgment seat of the great Jehovah, the Eternal Judge of all the livin’ and the dead. Amen.  
The End
