Well now, an invite’s bein’ thrown out for y’all to come chill in the Lord’s rest—Ya better pray with a real heart—The Spirit of Christ helps folks figure out what's good and what's not—The devil's tryin’ to get folks to turn their backs on Christ and do bad stuff—The prophets let us know Christ's comin’—With faith, miracles happen and angels show up—Folks oughta be hopin’ for eternal life and hold tight to love.
Now, I’m Moroni, and I gotta jot down a few words from my dad, Mormon. He talked a lot ‘bout faith, hope, and charity; that’s how he rolled with folks when he was teachin’ ‘em in the synagogue they built for worship.
Now, listen up, my dear brothers; it’s by the grace of God the Father, and our Lord Jesus Christ, and His holy will, ‘cause of the gift He gave me, that I get to chat with y’all right now.
So, I wanna speak to y’all who are part of the church, who follow Christ peacefully, and have enough hope to step on into the Lord's rest from now ‘til y’all be chillin’ with Him in heaven.
And I reckon I see how y’all are ‘cause ya walkin' peacefully with folks round ya.
‘Cause I remember the word of God sayin’ ya can tell ‘em by their deeds; if their doin’ good stuff, then they’re good folks too.
‘Cause listen here, God said a feller can’t be bad and do good; if he’s givin’ a gift or prayin’ to God, and ain’t doin’ it with a real heart, it ain’t worth a hill of beans.
That there ain't countin’ for righteousness neither.
And if a fella is bad and gives a gift, he’s doin’ it all grudgy-like; so it counts for nothin’ more than if he just kept that gift for himself. So God sees him as bad.
And it’s the same if a man prays without a real heart behind it; yep, it don’t profit him a thing, ‘cause God don’t take none of that.
So remember, a bad fella can’t do good; he ain’t gonna give a good gift neither.
‘Cause you know what? A sour well ain't gonna give up good water; and a good well can't drip out bad water. So a fella servin’ the devil can't follow Christ; and if he’s followin’ Christ, he can’t be servin’ the devil.
So, all good things come from God, and all the bad stuff? Yep, that comes from the devil; ‘cause he’s against God, always fightin’, persuading folks to sin, doin’ evil all the time.
But lookie here, what’s from God invites folks to do good all the time; so anything pushin’ to do good, love God, and serve Him, that’s inspired by God.
So, my dear brothers, be careful not to call the bad stuff good or think that the good stuff is from the devil.
‘Cause I’ll tell ya, y’all got the right to judge, so ya can tell the good from the bad; and how to tell’s just as clear as day is from night.
‘Cause the Spirit of Christ’s given to every man, so he can figure out the good from the bad; now I’m showin’ ya the way to judge; anything invitin’ to do good and get ya to believe in Christ, that’s all from the power and gift of Christ; so ya can know for sure it’s from God.
But anything pushin’ folks to act bad, not believe in Christ, deny Him, and not serve God, now that's easy to spot—the devil’s at work there; he don’t persuade no one to do good, not even a single one; neither do his angels, and neither do folks who give themselves to him.
And now, my brothers, since ya know the light that helps ya judge—this light bein' the light of Christ—make sure y’all don’t judge wrong, ‘cause with whatever judgment ya use, that’s how ya gonna be judged too.
So I’m askin' ya kindly, brothers, to look closely in the light of Christ so ya can figure out good from bad; and if ya grab hold of every good thing and don’t judge it wrong, y’all will surely be children of Christ.
And now, brothers, how in tarnation can ya hold on to every good thing?
Let me get to that faith I was talkin’ ‘bout; and I’m fixin’ to tell ya how you can grab onto all the good stuff.
‘Cause God, knowin’ all things, from forever to forever, sent angels to help out us folks down here, showin' us about the comin’ of Christ; and in Christ, every good thing’s gonna come.
And God let the prophets know, speakin’ right from His own mouth, that Christ was gonna show up.
And there were lots of ways He showed us good things to folks; all good stuff is from Christ; otherwise, folks would’ve fallen, and no good could come to ‘em.
So through angels servin’ and every word comin’ from God’s mouth, men started to have faith in Christ; and by faith, they were able to grab onto all the good stuff; and that’s how it was till Christ showed up.
After He came, folks were saved by faith in His name; and by faith, they became the children of God. And just like Christ lives, He told our ancestors: Whatever ya ask the Father in my name, if it’s good, and ya believe you’ll get it, then it’s gonna happen for ya.
So, my dear brothers, did miracles fade away ‘cause Christ went up to heaven and sat down by the Father, claimin' His mercy rights over the kids of men?
‘Cause He’s done what the law requires, and He claims all who believe in Him; and those who’ve got faith in Him will cling to every good thing; so He’s fightin’ for the cause of the kids of men; and He’s livin’ forever up in the heavens.
And since He did this, my dear brothers, have miracles stopped? I’m tellin’ ya no; angels haven’t stopped servin’ folks down here neither.
‘Cause they’re stuck to Him, servin’ how He tells ‘em, showin’ up for folks with strong faith and a steady mind in all kinds of godliness.
Their job is to call folks to repent, and to do what’s required in the Father’s covenants, which He made with us folks, preparin’ the way by tellin’ the word of Christ to the chosen ones from the Lord, so they can testify about Him.
And by doin' that, the Lord God’s gettin’ things ready so the rest of folks might have faith in Christ, so the Holy Ghost can set up shop in their hearts, and that’s how the Father brings about the covenants He made with us.
And Christ said: If ya got faith in me, ya can do whatever's good in me.
And He said: Repent, all y’all around the world, and come to me, and get baptized in my name, and have faith in me, so ya can be saved.
So now, my beloved brothers, if what I’ve been sayin’ is true, God’s gonna show ya, with power and great glory come the last day, that it’s true. So, if it’s true, has the day of miracles come to a close?
Or have angels stopped showin’ up for the kids of men? Or has He held back the Holy Ghost from ‘em? Or will He, until time ends, or the earth’s still standin’, or there’s one human left on this here planet to be saved?
I’m tellin’ ya, no way; ‘cause it’s by faith that miracles happen; and it’s by faith that angels show up and serve folks; so if that stuff's stopped, woe be unto the children of men, ‘cause it’s ‘cause of their doubtin’ and it’s all for nothin’.
‘Cause no man can be saved, accordin’ to Christ’s words, unless he’s got faith in His name; so if those things’ve stopped, then faith’s stop too; and that’s a nasty state for man, ‘cause it’s like there ain’t been no redemption.
But hey now, my beloved brothers, I reckon better things of ya, ‘cause I see that you got faith in Christ ‘cause of your gentle spirits; if you didn’t have faith in Him, then y’all wouldn’t fit to be counted with the folks of His church.
And again, my beloved brothers, I wanna talk to ya ‘bout hope. How in the world can ya get to faith, ‘less you been hopein’?
And what is it y’all hopin’ for? Now, I’m tellin’ ya, ya can have hope through the atonement of Christ and the power of His resurrection, to be raised to eternal life, thanks to your faith in Him, like the promise says.
So if a man’s got faith, he sure needs to have hope; without faith, there ain’t no hope to be had.
And again, listen up, I’m tellin’ ya, he can’t have faith and hope, ‘less he’s gentle and easy to get along with.
If not, then his faith and hope is just worthless ‘cause none are good in God’s eyes, ‘less they’s meek and humble; and if a man stays meek and humble and admits by the Holy Ghost's power that Jesus is Christ, he gotta have charity; if not, he ain’t worth a dime; so he better have charity.
And charity takes its time, is kind, don’t get jealous, is standin' tall and not all puffed up, don’t look for its own way, ain't easily stirred up, don’t think bad thoughts, and don’t celebrate wrongdoings, but gets happy over the truth, withstands all things, believes all things, hopes for all things, and endures all things.
So, my beloved brothers, if ya ain’t got charity, you’s nothin’;’cause charity don’t ever fail. So hold tight to charity, which is the top of ‘em all, ‘cause all things gotta fail—
But charity is the true love of Christ, and it lasts forever; and whoever’s got it when the last day rolls around is gonna be just fine.
So, my dear brothers, pray to the Father with all your heart’s energy, that ya might be filled with this love He’s givin’ to all who truly follow His Son, Jesus Christ; that ya might be sons of God; that when He shows up, we’ll be like Him, ‘cause we’ll see Him just as He is; that we might have hope; that we might be cleaned up just like He is pure. Amen.
