Well now, the dunkin' of them little kiddos is a downright wicked shame—Them little ones are all full of life in Christ 'cause of the Atonement—Ya got faith, turnin' from sin, bein' humble and sweet of heart, takin' in the Holy Ghost, and stickin' it out till the end leads y’all to salvation. Somewhere 'round A.D. 401-21.
A letter from my daddy, Mormon, written to me, Moroni; and it was scribbled not long after I got my call to preach. And here’s how he put it down for me:
“My dear son, Moroni, I’m just tickled pink that your Lord Jesus Christ’s been thinkin’ on ya, and called you to do His holy work.”
“I’m thinkin’ of ya all the time in my prayers, keepin' ya in my heart as I talk to God the Father in the name of His Holy Child, Jesus, hopin' He’ll keep you hangin' on to your faith 'til the end.”
“And now, my boy, I gotta talk to ya about somethin' that’s weighin' real heavy on my heart; it bothers me somethin' fierce that y’all are arguin’ over things.”
“‘Cause if'n I learned anything true, there’s been some squabblin' lastin’ among y’all 'bout dunkin' them little ones.”
“And right now, son, I want ya to get after it hard, to fix this big ol’ mess; that’s why I’m writin' you this letter.”
“Right after I caught wind of all this, I asked the Lord what I oughta do. And the Lord spoke to me through the Holy Ghost, sayin’:
“Pay attention to what Christ, your Redeemer, your Lord and your God, has to say. I come into this world not to call the good folks, but the sinners 'round here to turn from their ways; the whole ain't needin' a doc, only them that's sick; so listen here, little children are good as gold, 'cause they ain’t done no wrong; so the curse of Adam don’t stick to 'em in me, which means it ain’t got no hold on 'em; and that whole law of circumcision? Well, that’s gone with me.”
“And that’s how the Holy Ghost made the word of God clear to me; so my dear son, I know it’s a downright joke before God if y’all go on baptizin’ them little kids.”
“Now listen up, I’m tellin’ y’all this—you oughta preach repentance and baptism to them who know right from wrong and can make that choice; yeah, teach them parents that they gotta repent, get dunked, and humble themselves just like their little ones, and they’ll be saved along with their kids.”
“And them little ones don’t need to repent or get baptized. Now see here, baptism’s for turnin’ from sin to keepin’ the commandments and wash away the sins.”
“But them kiddos are alive in Christ since the beginning of time; if that weren’t true, then God’s pickin’ favorites and changin' His mind; how many little kids passed on without gettin’ baptized!”
“So if them little ones can’t be saved without baptism, well then they must be headed straight to a never-endin’ hell.”
“Listen here, I’m tellin’ you, anyone thinkin’ them little kiddos need baptism is sittin’ in a pot of bitterness and tangled up in sin; ‘cause he ain’t got no faith, hope, or love; so if he dies with them thoughts, he’s headin’ down to hell.”
“It’s downright awful to think that God saves one kid 'cause they got baptized, and another's gonna be lost 'cause they ain't.”
“Shame on them that twist the paths of the Lord this way, for they gonna be gone unless they change their tune. I’m speakin’ boldly here, got God’s authority behind me; and I ain't scared of what man might do, 'cause perfect love kicks fear to the curb.”
“I’m filled up with charity, which means everlasting love; so all kids are just the same to me; I love them little ones with a love that’s just perfect; they’re all equal and share in salvation.”
“For I know God ain’t playin’ favorites, neither is He one to be wishy-washy; He’s steadfast from all time to all time.”
“Little ones can’t repent; so it’s plain ole wicked to deny 'em the pure love of God, ‘cause they’re all livin’ in Him by His mercy.”
“And anyone sayin’ them little kiddos need baptism is turnin’ their back on the mercies of Christ and dismissin’ the Atonement and the power of His redemption.”
“Woe to them, ‘cause they’re danglin’ close to death, hell, and a heap of sufferin’. I’m sayin’ it straight up; God told me to. You best pay attention to 'em or they’ll be against ya at the judgment when you meet Christ.”
“For see here, all them little kiddos are alive in Christ, just like all them who ain't livin' by the law. The power of redemption hits all them who don’t follow no law; and if ya ain’t condemned, or holdin’ no blame, ya can’t repent; and for folks like that, baptism don’t mean a thing—”
“‘Cause it’s just mockery to God, denyin’ the mercies of Christ, the power of His Holy Spirit, and leanin' on dead works.”
“Now listen, my son, this here ain’t right; repentance is for them under condemnation and feelin’ the weight of broken law.”
“And the first step in repentin’ is gettin’ dunked; and baptism comes by havin’ faith to follow the rules; and followin’ the rules brings the wash away of sins.”
“And the wash away of sins leads to bein' meek and humble of heart; and ‘cause of that meekness and lowliness comes the visit from the Holy Ghost, which Comforter fills ya with hope and perfect love, and that sort of love sticks around through prayer, until the end comes, when all the saints get to hang out with God.”
“Now, my son, I’ll drop you another letter if I don’t head out soon to face them Lamanites. Just look at the pride of this here nation, or them Nephites’ people, it’s been their downfall unless they change their ways.”
“Pray for 'em, my boy, that they find repentance. But I’m worried the Spirit’s givin' up on ‘em; and in this part of the world, they’re tryin’ to shut down all power and authority from God; and they got the Holy Ghost on the run.”
“And after turnin’ their back on such great knowledge, my son, they’re bound to come to an end, just like the prophecies spoken by the prophets, and our Savior’s own words.”
“Goodbye now, my son, till I write again, or until we meet up once more. Amen.”
