The second epistle of Mormon to his son Moroni.
Comprising chapter 9.
Well, my dear boy, I’m writin’ ya again so ya know I’m still kickin’; but I’m fixin’ to share some heavy stuff with ya.
Now listen here, I’ve had a rough time goin’ against them Lamanites, and we didn’t come out on top; and poor Archeantus didn’t make it, and neither did Luram and Emron; shoot, we lost a heap of good folks.
And now, son, I’m real worried that them Lamanites might just wipe us out; they ain’t budging on the repentin’, and ol’ Satan keeps stirrin’ them up to fight each other.
I’ve been at it with them day in and day out; when I’m preachin’ God’s word all fiery-like, they get all shook up and mad; but if I tone it down, they just harden their hearts, and that’s why I’m scared the Spirit of the Lord ain’t fussin’ with them no more.
It’s like they’re so fired up with hate that they don’t even fear death no more; they’ve lost any kinda love for one another, always thirstin’ for blood and vengeance.
Now, my dear son, despite their hard-headedness, we gotta keep workin’ hard; ‘cause if we quit, we’ll be in a heap of trouble; we got work to do in this ol’ body of ours, so we can take down the enemy of all that’s good, and rest our weary souls in God’s kingdom.
Now I gotta tell ya ‘bout what folks are sufferin’. From what I learned from Amoron, them Lamanites got a whole mess of prisoners from the tower of Sherrizah; and let me tell ya, they got men, women, and kiddies.
Them Lamanites done killed the husbands and daddies of those women and kids; and they feedin’ the women the meat of their own husbands, and the kids their own papas; and they only give ‘em just a smidge of water to drink.
And even with this terrible mess the Lamanites is makin’, it ain’t as bad as what our folks are doin’ in Moriantum. ‘Cause look here, they’ve taken many a Lamanite gal prisoner; and after takin’ away what was most precious to ‘em, which is their virtue and purity—
And then they go and murder ‘em in a bone-chillin’ way, torturin’ their bodies till they meet their end; and once they’re done, they chow down on their flesh like wild animals, ‘cause their hearts are stone cold; doin’ it all as some kinda twisted show of bravery.
Oh my dear son, how can a people like this, with no manners or decency—
(And it wasn’t even too many years ago when they was a civil and happy bunch)
But oh my son, how can a crowd like this, findin’ joy in so much filth—
How can we reckon that God’s gonna hold off on judgment against us?
Look here, my heart’s cryin’: Woe is unto this people. Come on down in judgment, O God, and don’t let their sins, and wickedness, and foul deeds be seen by you!
And again, my son, there’s a whole lotta widows and their daughters still stuck in Sherrizah; and what little food the Lamanites didn’t take, well, the army of Zenephi scooped that up too, leavin’ them to scramble around lookin’ for scraps; and a lotta old women are just givin’ up and dyin’ along the way.
And the army I’m with is all weak; and them Lamanites is sittin’ right in between Sherrizah and me; and anyone who’s run off to join Aaron’s army has fallen prey to their awful cruelty.
Oh, the wickedness of my people! They got no sense of order or mercy. I’m just a man, and I’m only as strong as any ol’ man, and I can’t keep givin’ orders any longer.
And they’ve gotten strong in their twisted ways; they’re all the same, merciless, with no regard for age; they take pleasure in everything ‘cept for what’s good; and the pain our women and children are feelin’ all over this land is just too much to bear; ain’t no words can say it, nor can it be wrote down.
Now, my son, I ain't gonna dwell on this horrible picture no more. You know the wickedness of this people; you know they’re without principles and feelin’s; and their sin is worse than the Lamanites’.
Son, I can’t recommend ‘em to God ‘less He might strike me down.
But listen, my son, I commend you to God, and I’m puttin’ my trust in Christ that you’ll be saved; and I’m prayin’ to God that He’ll let you live long enough to see His people come back to Him, or face total destruction; ‘cause I know they’re fixin’ to be lost if they don’t repent and turn back to Him.
And if they go down, it’ll be just like what happened to the Jaredites, all ‘cause of their stubborn hearts, always seekin’ blood and revenge.
And if the worst does happen, we know a whole lotta our brothers have jumped ship to the Lamanites, and even more will likely follow; so go ahead and jot down a few things, if you’re still around when I may not be seein’ you again; but I sure hope to see you soon; I got some sacred records to hand over to you.
My boy, stay strong in Christ; don’t let the heavy stuff I’ve written get ya down or wear ya out; but may Christ lift ya up, and may His sufferin’ and death, and showin’ His body to our forefathers, and His mercy and patience, and the hope of His glory and eternal life, find a cozy spot in your mind forever.
And may the grace of God the Father, who sits high up in the heavens, and our Lord Jesus Christ, who’s sittin’ right next to His power, till everything bows down to Him, be with you and stay forever. Amen.
