Well now, here’s my take on Enos’s tale in cowpoke talk:
So, it was one fine day that I, Enos, knowing my ol' man was a good fella—'cause he raised me right with his own words and taught me the ways of the Lord—and I’m mighty thankful to my God for that—
Let me spin you a yarn about the tussle I had with the Good Lord before I got my sins washed clean.
I took off into the woods to hunt some game; and the words I'd often heard my dad preach about everlasting life and the happiness of the good folks stuck deep in my heart.
And my spirit was mighty hungry; so I dropped to my knees before my Maker, callin’ out to Him with all my might for my own soul 'til the sun went down; and even at nightfall, I lifted my voice high enough it might just reach the stars.
Then a voice spoke to me, sayin', "Enos, your sins are wiped clean, and you’re fixin' to be blessed."
I, Enos, knew right well that God don’t fib; so, all my guilt just blew away.
And I said, "Lord, how'd ya pull that off?"
And He replied, "Because of your faith in Christ, whom you ain't never heard nor seen. Many moons will pass 'fore He shows up in the flesh; so there ya have it, your faith has made ya whole."
Now, after hearin' all that, I started to stir with a mighty wish for the well-bein' of my folks, the Nephites; so I laid it all out to God for 'em.
While I was wrestlin’ with the spirit, here came that voice of the Lord again, sayin’, "I’ll be visitin’ your kinfolk 'cordin’ to how hard they work to keep my commandments. This land I’ve given 'em is a holy place; and I won’t curse it unless there’s wrongdoing afoot; so I’ll visit your folks like I said; and their wrongdoings will come back to bite 'em hard."
After I, Enos, heard that, my faith in the Lord got stronger than a bull; and I prayed long and hard for my brethren, the Lamanites.
Then, after I had prayed and toiled as hard as a dog on a hot day, the Lord said to me, "I’m gonna give you what you wish for, ‘cause of your faith."
Now, let me tell ya what I desired of Him—that if my people, the Nephites, fell off the wagon and got wiped out, but the Lamanites weren’t, I wanted the Lord God to keep a record of my people, the Nephites; even if it took a miracle of His mighty strength, that it could be brought to the Lamanites down the line, so maybe they’d find their way to salvation—
‘Cause right now, all our efforts to bring 'em back to the good faith were for nothin'. They were swearin’ mad that if they could, they’d wipe out our records and us, and all the tales of our forefathers.
So, I knew the Lord God could keep our records safe, I cried out to Him day and night, 'cause He had told me: "Whatever you ask in faith, believing it will come to pass in the name of Christ, it’ll happen."
And I had faith, and I bellowed to God to protect the records; and He made me a promise that He’d bring ‘em back to the Lamanites when the time was right.
And I, Enos, was sure it would be just like He promised; so my soul found peace.
And the Lord told me, "Your fathers have asked me for the same thing; and I’ll grant it to 'em 'cordin’ to their faith; ‘cause their faith’s just like yours."
So, it came to pass that I, Enos, rode ‘round among the Nephites, prophesying about what’s coming down the road, and talkin' 'bout the things I had heard and seen.
I can vouch that the Nephites worked hard to bring the Lamanites back to the true faith in God. But our efforts were fruitless; their hate ran deep, and they were driven wild by their wicked ways, turnin’ into a fierce and bloodthirsty bunch, steeped in idol worship and filth; livin’ off critters, propped up in tents, wanderin’ through the wilds with nothin’ but a piece of skin snug ‘round their waists and their heads shaven; their skills were in shootin' bows and swingin' swords, and axin’ wood. A heap of ‘em ate nothin' but raw meat, always lookin' to hunt us down.
And it came to pass that the Nephites tilled the land, growin’ all sorts of grains, fruit, and raisin’ herds of cattle and goats, alongside plenty of horses.
There were a heap of prophets among us. But the folks were stubborn, hard-headed, and tough to sway.
And there was nothin’ but all kinds of harsh preachin’, blabbin’ about wars, fights, and all the destruction that’s goin' on, keepin’ their noses rubbed in death, eternity, the Lord's judgements, and all that jazz—keepin’ ‘em on their toes with fear of the Lord. I say, nothin' short of this, and a clear way of speakin', would keep ‘em from headed for quick ruin. That’s how I write about ‘em.
I saw plenty of battles between the Nephites and Lamanites during my time.
Then I hit the age where I was feelin’ old, and it had been a good hundred seventy-nine years since our father Lehi pulled out of Jerusalem.
I knew my time was near to ride off to the great beyond, havin’ been pushed by the power of God to preach and prophesy to this crowd, and deliver the truth that’s in Christ. I’ve spoken it my whole life, and I take more joy in it than any worldly thing.
Now I’m fixin’ to head to my final restin’ place with my Redeemer; ‘cause I know I’ll find peace in Him. I’m filled with joy for the day when my mortal form’ll put on immortality, and I’ll stand before Him; then I’ll see His face with a smile, and He’ll say to me: "Come on over, you blessed one, there’s a spot saved for you in my Father’s house." Amen.
