A testimony of the Book of Mormon comes by the right hand of the Holy Ghost—The gifts of the Spirit flow to them that keep the faith—Spiritual gifts always ride along with faith—Moroni’s words are callin' from the ground—Come unto Christ, get polished in Him, and clean up yer souls. 'Bout A.D. 421.
Well now, I, Moroni, write in a way that feels right to me; and I’m writin’ to my kinfolk, the Lamanites; and I reckon they oughta know that more’n four hundred twenty years have passed since the sign was thrown out about Christ’s comin’.
So I’m puttin' these records away, ‘afore I say a few words to stir ya.
Listen close now, I’d urge ya that when y’all read these here words, if it’s the Lord’s way that ye should read 'em, remember how kindly the Lord’s been to humankind, ever since Adam was around all the way up until the time you get these words, and chew on it in yer hearts.
And when ya get ahold of these words, I’d encourage ya to ask God, the Eternal Father, in the name of Christ, if these here words ain’t true; and if’n ya ask with a genuine heart, with real intent, puttin’ yer faith in Christ, He’ll show ya the truth of it, by the power of the Holy Ghost.
And by the power of the Holy Ghost, ya can know the truth of all things.
And anything that’s good is right and true; so, nothin' good turns away from Christ, but acknowledges that He is.
And ya folks can know that He is, by the power of the Holy Ghost; so I’d advise ya not to turn away from God’s power; ‘cause He works through power, dependin’ on the faith of the folks, same as today, tomorrow, and forever.
And once more, I urge ya, my brothers, to not forget the gifts from God, ‘cause they’re plenty; and they all come from the same God. There’s different ways these gifts are spread around; but it’s the same God who runs the show; and they come through the Spirit of God to men, for their benefit.
’Cause check it out, to one feller it’s given through the Spirit of God, that he can teach the word of wisdom;
And to another, he can teach the word of knowledge by that same Spirit;
And to another, a heap of faith; and to another, the gifts of healing by that same Spirit;
And again, to another, he might work some truly big miracles;
And again, to another, he might be prophesize ‘bout all things;
And again, to another, he might catch sight of angels and those happy spirits;
And again, to another, he might speak all sorts of tongues;
And again, to another, he might interpret languages and all manner of tongues.
And all these here gifts come by the Spirit of Christ; and they come to each man individually, as he’s got a mind for it.
And I would urge ya, my cherished brothers, to keep in mind that every good gift comes from Christ.
And I would urge ya, my cherished brothers, to remember that He’s the same yesterday, today, and forever, and all these gifts I been yappin’ about, which are spiritual, will never get tossed aside, so long as this ol’ world keeps on spinnin’, except by the unbelief of folks.
So, there’s gotta be some faith; and if there’s gotta be faith, then there’s gotta be hope; and if there’s hope, there must be charity too.
And without a shred of charity, you won’t be saved in God’s kingdom; nor can ya be saved if ya ain’t got faith; nor can ya if ya lack hope.
And if ya ain’t got hope, ya gotta be in despair; and despair comes from doin’ wrong.
And Christ truly said to our forefathers: if ya have faith, ya can do all things that are fit for me.
And now I’m talkin’ to all the ends of the earth—that if the day comes when God’s power and gifts are gone from ya, it’ll be ’cause ’a unbelief.
And woe be unto the children of men if that’s what happens; ‘cause there won’t be nobody doin’ good among ya, not a single soul. For if there be one among ya doin’ good, he’ll be doin’ it by God’s power and gifts.
And woe unto them who cast away these gifts and kick the bucket, for they die in their wrongs, and they can’t be saved in God’s kingdom; and I’m sayin’ it straight from the words of Christ; and I’m not tellin’ no lies.
And I urge ya to keep these things in mind; for the time’s comin’ that ya’ll find out I ain't no liar, for ya will see me at God’s bar; and the Lord God will say to ya: Didn’t I not share My words with ya, writ by this man, like one cryin’ from the grave, yeah, even like one speakin’ from the dust?
I declare these things to fulfill the prophecies. And behold, they’ll come out from the mouth of the everlasting God; and His word will ring out from generation to generation.
And God will show ya that what I’ve penned down is true.
And again, I’d urge ya to come unto Christ, and grab hold of every good gift, and don’t touch the bad gifts, nor the unclean ones.
And wake up, and get up from the dust, O Jerusalem; yeah, and put on your finest duds, O daughter of Zion; and strengthen yer stakes and stretch out yer boundaries forever, so ya won’t be confounded no more, that the promises of the Eternal Father He’s made to ya, O house of Israel, may come to pass.
Yep, come unto Christ, and be perfected in Him, and shake off all ungodliness; and if ya do shake off all ungodliness, and love God with all yer heart, mind, and strength, then His grace will be sufficient for ya, that by His grace, ya may be perfect in Christ; and if by the grace of God ya are perfect in Christ, ya can’t, by any means, deny God’s power.
And again, if ya, by God’s grace, are perfect in Christ, and don’t deny His power, then you’re sanctified in Christ by grace, through the shed blood of Christ, which is in the Father’s covenant for the forgiveness of your sins, so ya can be holy, without a speck.
And now I wave my hat and bid you all, farewell. I’m headin' to lay my head down in God's paradise, until my spirit and body reconcile, and I’m brought forth triumphant through the air, to meet ya before the fine bar of the great Jehovah, the Eternal Judge of the livin’ and the dead. Amen.
The End
