Well, here we go.
This here’s a letter from your ol’ paw Mormon to his boy Moroni.
Now listen up, partner, I’m scribblin’ down some words again to let ya know I’m still kickin’, though what I got to say ain’t easy on the old heart.
For truth be told, I’ve been in a fierce tussle with them Lamanites, and we didn’t come out on top; Archeantus met his maker in battle, and same goes for Luram and Emron; we’ve lost a whole heap of good men.
I’m mighty worried, son, that them Lamanites might wipe out our folks; they ain't showin’ an ounce of remorse, and that ol’ devil keeps stirrin' ‘em up to fight like cats in a sack.
I’m workin’ my butt off tryin’ to help 'em, but when I preach God’s word sharp-like, they shake in their boots and get mad at me; when I go soft, they harden their hearts like iron; makes me fear the Spirit of the Lord has packed up and left ‘em.
They’re so mad, it looks like they ain’t scared of dyin’, and they’ve lost all bit of love they had for each other; it’s like they can’t quench their thirst for blood and vengeance.
But listen here, my dear son, no matter how hard their hearts are, let’s keep puttin’ in the elbow grease; if we slack off, we'll be in a world of hurt; we got work to do in this here flesh-and-blood body to take down the true enemy of all that’s right and have peace in the good Lord’s kingdom.
Now I’m fixin’ to share a bit ‘bout the troubles our people's facin’. According to what I learned from Amoron, the Lamanites got a heap of folks locked up, takin’ ‘em from the tower of Sherrizah; men, women, and kids, they’ve got ‘em all.
They’ve gone and murdered the husbands and daddies of them women and kids; they’re feedin’ the poor women the flesh of their own men, and them kids the flesh of their daddies; and they barely give ‘em a sip of water here and there.
Even with all this gruesome stuff the Lamanites been up to, it don’t hold a candle to the wrongdoings of our folks in Moriantum. They’ve captured plenty of the Lamanite gals, and after takin’ the one thing that matters most to ‘em—their honor and virtue—
Once they’ve done that, they go and take their lives in the cruelest ways, torturin’ ‘em ‘til they breathe their last; and afterwards, they chow down on their remains like savage beasts, all ‘cause their hearts are stone cold; it’s their idea of bein’ brave.
Oh, my dear boy, how can a folks like this, who’ve lost their civility—
(Ain’t but a few years passed since they were a civil and pleasant bunch)
But oh son, how can a people like this, whose joy is in downright wickedness—
How can we reckon God will hold back His judgment on us?
Look, it makes my heart ache: Woe unto this people. Step in, God, and bring ‘em to justice, and keep their sins and perversions hidden from your sight!
And besides that, son, there’s a handful of widows and their daughters still hangin’ on in Sherrizah; and the supplies that the Lamanites didn’t haul off? Well, the army of Zenephi took those, leavin’ ‘em to fend for themselves lookin’ for grub; many an old woman collapses and meets her end on the road.
And let me tell ya, the folks with me are weak; those Lamanite armies are layin’ in wait between Sherrizah and us; and anyone who’s tried to escape to Aaron’s side has faced unspeakable cruelty.
Oh, the lowliness of my people! They’ve lost all sense of order and mercy. I’m just a man, and I’ve only got so much strength to go around, and I can’t keep pushin’ my commands any longer.
They’ve gotten strong in all their wickedness; they’re brutal to the core, sparin’ no one—be they young or old; they take delight in everythin’ but what’s good, and the suffering of our women and children across this land is beyond words; yeah, words just can’t do it justice.
And now, son, I ain’t gonna linger on this dreadful sight no more. You know well the sins of these people; you know they’re without a compass, feelin’ nothing; their wickedness is worse than that of the Lamanites.
Listen, son, I can’t send ‘em up to God without thinkin’ I’ll be smitten too.
But mark my words, I’m sendin’ you up to God, and I’m puttin’ my faith in Christ that you’ll find salvation; I pray God keeps you alive to see his people either return to Him, or meet their end; ‘cause without repentance and turnin’ back, they’re done for.
And if they do perish, it’ll be just like the Jaredites, all ‘cause of their stubborn hearts, thirstin’ for blood and revenge.
If it comes to pass that they meet their doom, we know many of our kin have switched sides to the Lamanites, and more’ll surely follow suit; so go ahead and pen down a few thoughts, if you’re still kickin’ and I end up not seein’ you again; I just pray I’ll lay my eyes on you soon ‘cause I got some sacred records I want to pass on to you.
My son, stay true to Christ; don’t let the weight of my words drag ya down to despair; let Christ be your lifter, may his trials and death, the revealing of his form to our forefathers, and his mercy and patience, along with hope for his glory and eternal life, stay with you in your heart.
And may the grace of God the Father, whose throne looms high in the sky, and our Lord Jesus Christ, who’s sittin’ at the right hand of His power until all things bow to Him, be with you always. Amen.
