Ammon rejoices in the Lord—Those who are faithful are strengthened and given knowledge by Him—With faith, people can inspire many to repent—God has all power and knows everything.
Now, these are Ammon's words to his brothers, which are as follows: My brothers, look! I want to express how many reasons we have to be happy; when we left the land of Zarahemla, could we have imagined that God would bestow such wonderful blessings upon us?
So now I ask, what blessings has He given us? Can you tell me?
I’ll tell you; our brothers the Lamanites were lost in deep darkness, but look how many have come to see the incredible light of God! This is the blessing we have received—to be instruments in God’s hands to accomplish this great work.
See, thousands of them rejoice and have been welcomed into God’s fold.
The harvest was ready, and you are blessed because you worked hard and reaped throughout the day, look at the number of crops you gathered! They will be stored where they won’t go to waste.
Indeed, they won’t be destroyed by the storms at the end; they won’t be tossed around by fierce winds; when the storm comes, they will be gathered safely so the storm cannot reach them, and they won’t be driven away by the enemy’s winds.
But behold, they are in the hands of the Lord of the harvest, and He will raise them up at the end.
Praise the name of our God; let’s sing His praises and give thanks to His holy name, for He always does what is right.
If we had not come out of Zarahemla, our dear friends, who love us so much, would still be filled with hatred towards us, and they would not know God.
After Ammon said this, his brother Aaron reprimanded him, saying: Ammon, I worry that your joy is making you boastful.
But Ammon responded: I'm not boasting about my strength or wisdom; rather, I am completely filled with joy, and my heart is overflowing, and I will take joy in my God.
I know that I am nothing; in terms of my strength, I’m weak; so I will not boast of myself, but I will boast about my God—because through His strength, I can do anything; indeed, we have performed many great miracles in this land, for which we will praise His name forever.
Look at how many thousands of our brothers He has freed from the suffering of hell; they now sing of His redeeming love thanks to the power of His word within us, so don’t we have every reason to rejoice?
Yes, we have reason to praise Him forever, for He is the Most High God and has freed our brothers from the grip of hell.
They were surrounded by everlasting darkness and destruction; but now He has brought them into His everlasting light, into eternal salvation; they are surrounded by the unmatched abundance of His love; and we have been instruments in His hands to accomplish this great and wonderful task.
So let us rejoice and take pride in the Lord; yes, we will be joyful because our happiness is complete; we will forever praise our God. Who could possibly honor the Lord too much? Who could speak too highly of His great power, mercy, and patience towards people? I tell you, I cannot even express a fraction of what I feel.
Who could have imagined that our God would be so merciful as to save us from our terrible and sinful state?
Look, we went out angry, with great threats to destroy His church.
So why didn’t He just let us face terrible destruction? Why didn’t He allow His justice to punish us and condemn us to eternal despair?
Oh, my soul, it makes me shudder just thinking about it. But behold, He did not enforce His justice on us; rather, in His vast mercy, He brought us across that eternal divide of death and misery, to save our souls.
Now look, my brothers, which human being knows these things? I tell you, none know them except the penitent.
Yes, the one who repents and has faith, doing good works and praying constantly—these will understand the mysteries of God; and they will be given the ability to reveal things that have never been revealed, and they will be able to help thousands of souls repent just like we have helped our brothers.
Do you remember, my brothers, when we told our brethren in Zarahemla that we were going to the land of Nephi to preach to the Lamanites, and they laughed at us?
They said: Do you think you can bring the Lamanites to understand the truth? Do you think you can convince them that the traditions of their fathers are wrong, when they are such a stubborn people whose hearts delight in bloodshed, who have lived in wickedness since the beginning? My brothers, you remember their words.
They also said: Let’s take up arms against them to rid the land of their wickedness, lest they overwhelm us and destroy us.
But look, my dear brothers, we entered the wilderness not with the intent to destroy our brothers, but with the hope that we might save at least some of their souls.
When our spirits were low and we were about to turn back, the Lord comforted us and said: Go among your brothers, the Lamanites, and endure your hardships patiently, and I will grant you success.
Now look, we have come and mingled with them; we have been patient through suffering, enduring every hardship; yes, we have traveled from house to house, relying not just on the kindness of the world, but on the goodness of God.
We have entered their homes and taught them, as well as in their streets; yes, we have taught them on their hills; we have also entered their temples and synagogues to teach them; we have been cast out, mocked, spat upon, and hit on the cheeks; we have been stoned and bound with strong ropes, thrown in prison; yet through the power and wisdom of God, we have been set free.
We have endured all kinds of hardships, all of this perhaps to save just one soul; we thought our joy would be complete if we could save some.
Now look, we can see the results of our efforts; are they few? I tell you, no, they are many; and we can testify to their genuineness because of their love for their brothers and for us.
For they would rather give up their lives than harm their enemies; they have buried their weapons deep in the ground out of love for their brethren.
Now tell me, has there been such great love anywhere? I say no, there hasn’t even among the Nephites.
For they would fight against their brothers rather than allow themselves to be killed. But look at how many of these have laid down their lives; and we know they have gone to their God because of their love for Him and their hatred of sin.
Now don’t we have reasons to rejoice? Yes, I tell you, no one has had as great a reason to rejoice as we do since the beginning of the world; indeed, my joy leads me to boast in my God; for He has all power, all wisdom, and all understanding; He knows everything and is a merciful Being, bringing salvation to those who repent and believe in His name.
If this is boasting, then I will boast; for this is my life, my light, my joy, my salvation, and my escape from everlasting woe. Blessed be the name of my God, who has looked after these people, a branch of the tree of Israel, lost in a strange land; yes, I say, blessed be the name of my God, who has remembered us, wanderers in a foreign land.
Now my brothers, we see that God cares for every people, wherever they are; He knows His people, and His compassion reaches everywhere. This is my joy and my deep gratitude; yes, I will give thanks to my God forever. Amen.
