They paused and stepped back. Moroni said to Zerahemnah: Look, Zerahemnah, we don’t want to be violent. You know we have the power to defeat you, but we don’t want to kill you.
We haven’t come to fight you to take your power; we don’t aim to enslave anyone. But you are here because you want to fight us, and you are upset with us because of our beliefs.
Look, the Lord is on our side; He has handed you over to us. Understand that this is happening because of our faith in Christ. You can see that you can’t destroy our belief.
Now you realize that this is the true faith in God; you see that He will support and protect us as long as we remain faithful to Him and our beliefs. The Lord will not allow us to be destroyed unless we turn away from Him and deny our faith.
And now, Zerahemnah, I command you, in the name of the all-powerful God who has made us strong enough to defeat you, through our faith and our worship, and because we owe devotion to our families and our land; and by the sacred word of God that brings us happiness—
Yes, and this is not all; I urge you, by everything you value in life, to give us your weapons. We won’t seek to harm you, but we will spare your lives if you leave us in peace and don’t come to fight us again.
But if you don’t do this, you are in our power, and I will tell my men to attack and kill you, so we’ll see who truly has control over this people; we’ll see who ends up being enslaved.
When Zerahemnah heard these words, he approached and surrendered his sword, his dagger, and his bow to Moroni, saying: Here are our weapons; we will give them to you, but we refuse to swear an oath to you that we know we would break, along with our children. Take our weapons and let us go into the wilderness; otherwise, we’ll keep our swords and either die or fight back.
We don’t share your beliefs; we don’t think it was God who gave us into your hands; we believe it’s your cunning that has kept you safe from us. Your armor and shields are what have protected you.
After Zerahemnah finished speaking, Moroni returned the sword and weapons he had received, saying: We will end this conflict.
I can’t take back what I said, so as truly as the Lord lives, you won’t leave unless you swear you won’t come back to fight us. Now that we have you, we will either kill you or you will accept the terms I’ve proposed.
After Moroni said this, Zerahemnah kept his sword and was angry with him. He charged at Moroni to strike him, but one of Moroni’s soldiers struck Zerahemnah's sword down to the ground, breaking it at the hilt. He also struck Zerahemnah, and his scalp fell off. Zerahemnah retreated among his soldiers.
The soldier who had severed Zerahemnah's scalp picked it up by the hair, placed it on the tip of his sword, and held it up, loudly declaring:
Just as this scalp, the scalp of your leader, has fallen to the ground, so will you fall if you do not give us your weapons and leave in peace.
Many, upon hearing these words and seeing the scalp on the sword, were filled with fear; many threw down their weapons at Moroni’s feet and made a peace agreement. Those who agreed to the treaty were allowed to go into the wilderness.
Zerahemnah was extremely angry and rallied his remaining soldiers to fight more fiercely against the Nephites.
Moroni, angered by the Lamanites’ stubbornness, ordered his people to attack and kill them. They began to slay them, and the Lamanites fought back with all their strength.
But the bare skin and heads of the Lamanites were vulnerable to the sharp swords of the Nephites; they were struck down fast by the Nephites’ swords, just as Moroni’s soldiers had predicted.
When Zerahemnah saw his people were about to be defeated, he cried out to Moroni, promising to agree to peace and asking that the rest of their lives be spared, vowing they would not wage war against the Nephites again.
Moroni then told his men to stop killing, and he took the weapons of war from the Lamanites. After they agreed to a peace treaty, they were allowed to leave for the wilderness.
The number of dead was too great to count; both the Nephites and Lamanites suffered heavy losses.
They cast their dead bodies into the waters of Sidon, where they sank and were buried in the depths of the sea.
The Nephite armies, led by Moroni, returned to their homes and lands.
Thus ended the eighteenth year of the judges' reign over the Nephites, and thus concluded Alma’s record, which was written on the Nephi plates.
