In the beginning of the twenty-ninth year of the judges, Ammoron sent a message to Moroni asking if they could trade prisoners.
Moroni was very happy about this request because he needed the food meant for the Lamanite prisoners to help his own people, and he also wanted to rescue his people to make his army stronger.
At that time, the Lamanites had taken many women and children captive, and Moroni didn’t have any women or children among his prisoners; so Moroni came up with a plan to get as many Nephite prisoners back from the Lamanites as he could.
He wrote a letter and sent it back with the same servant of Ammoron who had delivered the initial letter. Here is what he said to Ammoron:
Listen, Ammoron, I want to talk to you about the war that you and your brother have started against my people, and which you still want to continue even after his death.
I want to tell you about the justice of God and the severe consequences that are awaiting you unless you repent and pull your troops back to your own land, the land of Nephi.
I would explain these things to you if you were willing to listen; I want to warn you about the terrible fate that awaits murderers like you and your brother unless you turn away from your violent plans and return home with your armies.
But since you have already rejected this advice and have fought against the people of God, I expect you will do so again.
Now, I want you to know that we are ready to confront you; if you don’t change your mind, you will face God's anger for rejecting Him, and it will lead to your total destruction.
As surely as the Lord lives, our armies will come against you unless you back down, and death will soon be upon you because we will protect our cities and lands; we will defend our faith and our cause.
But I suspect that I am just wasting my breath addressing you about these matters; perhaps you are lost to evil; so I will end my letter by saying that I will only exchange prisoners if you give back a man, his wife, and his children for one of your prisoners. If you agree to this, I will go along with the exchange.
However, if you refuse, I will come against you with my armies; yes, I will even arm my women and children and pursue you into your own territory, which is the land we originally inherited; it will be an eye for an eye, life for a life, and I will fight you until you are completely wiped out.
I am angry, and so is my people; you sought to kill us, while we are only defending ourselves. If you continue to try to destroy us, we will retaliate, and we will take back our land, our original inheritance.
Now I end my letter. I am Moroni, the leader of the Nephites.
When Ammoron received this letter, he was furious, so he wrote back to Moroni, and here’s what he said:
I am Ammoron, the king of the Lamanites; I am the brother of Amalickiah, whom you killed. I will take revenge on you, and I will send my armies against you because I am not afraid of your threats.
Your ancestors wronged us greatly, taking away our rightful claim to the government that should have belonged to us.
Now, if you lay down your arms and allow yourselves to be ruled by those who rightfully have the government, I will make sure my people will lay down their weapons and we will not fight anymore.
You have threatened me and my people many times, but we do not fear your threats.
Still, I will agree to exchange prisoners as you requested, happily, so that I can conserve my supplies for my warriors; we are prepared to wage a war that will either make the Nephites serve us or lead to their absolute destruction.
As for the God you claim we have rejected, we do not know Him, nor do you; but if such a being does exist, He made us just as He made you.
And if there is indeed a devil and a hell, will He not send you to join my brother whom you killed, the one you hinted has gone to such a place? However, these issues are not important to me.
I am Ammoron, a descendant of Zoram, whom your ancestors forced out of Jerusalem.
Now, I am a bold Lamanite; this war is fought to seek justice for our wrongs and to claim our rightful place in governance; and with that, I conclude my letter to Moroni.
