When Moroni received this letter, he became even angrier because he knew that Ammoron understood the deceit behind the conflict; in fact, he knew that Ammoron recognized that there was no fair reason for this war against the Nephite people.
He declared: I will not trade prisoners with Ammoron unless he agrees to end his war plans, as I mentioned in my letter; I will not give him any more power than he currently has.
Look, I know where the Lamanite guards are keeping my captured people; since Ammoron didn’t accept my letter, I will act according to my words; I will fight against them until they ask for peace.
Then Moroni told his men to search for someone among them who was a descendant of Laman.
They discovered someone named Laman, who was a servant of the king murdered by Amalickiah.
Moroni instructed Laman and a small group of men to approach the guards who were looking after the Nephite prisoners.
The Nephites were being held in the city of Gid; thus, Moroni sent Laman with a few men to go there.
That evening, Laman approached the guards over the Nephites, and they recognized him and welcomed him; he said to them: Don’t be afraid; I am a Lamanite. We have escaped from the Nephites, and they are sleeping; we have brought some of their wine with us.
When the Lamanites heard this, they welcomed him joyfully, saying: Share your wine with us so we can drink; we are happy that you have brought wine!
Laman replied: Let’s save the wine for when we go into battle against the Nephites. But this only made them want to drink the wine even more.
They said: We are tired, so let’s drink the wine, and later we will get more to boost our strength against the Nephites.
Laman said: Do whatever you want.
So they drank the wine freely, enjoying its taste and consumed it even more eagerly since it was strong and well-made.
Eventually, they became merry and eventually drunk.
When Laman and his men saw that all the guards were drunk and deep asleep, they returned to Moroni and reported what had happened.
This was exactly what Moroni had planned. He had armed his men with weapons and set off for the city of Gid while the Lamanites slept deeply and were intoxicated, throwing weapons to the prisoners so that they could all arm themselves.
Even the women and children capable of holding a weapon were armed by Moroni in complete silence.
If the Lamanites had woken up, they would have found themselves drunk, and the Nephites could have easily attacked them.
However, Moroni did not want that; he didn’t want to kill or shed unnecessary blood but aimed to save his people; to avoid injustice, he chose not to attack the Lamanites in their drunken state.
Yet he achieved his goal; he armed the Nephite prisoners inside the city walls, giving them the power to reclaim the areas within the walls.
He then instructed his men to step back a little and surround the Lamanite forces.
Since this was done at night, when the Lamanites woke up in the morning, they discovered they were surrounded by the Nephites outside and that their prisoners were armed inside.
Seeing this, the Lamanites realized the Nephites had power over them, and they felt it was not wise to fight back; thus, their top leaders asked for their weapons back and threw them at the Nephites' feet, begging for mercy.
This was precisely what Moroni wanted. He took them as prisoners of war, seized the city, and freed all the Nephite prisoners, who then joined Moroni’s army, adding great strength to it.
Then he made the Lamanite prisoners begin work on reinforcing the fortifications around the city of Gid.
After fortifying the city of Gid as he intended, he moved his prisoners to the city of Bountiful and ensured that city was heavily guarded.
Despite the Lamanites' various schemes, they managed to keep all the prisoners safe and maintained control over the territory they had regained.
The Nephites began to win again and reclaim their rights and privileges.
The Lamanites tried many times to trap them at night, but each time they lost many of their own prisoners.
They also often tried to poison the Nephites with wine in hopes of intoxication or worse.
However, the Nephites were quick to remember the Lord during their struggles. They weren’t fooled by the Lamanite traps; they refused to drink wine unless they first tested it on some Lamanite prisoners.
They were careful to make sure no poison was passed on to them; if the wine poisoned a Lamanite, it could also poison a Nephite, so they tested all their drinks.
Now, it was necessary for Moroni to get ready to attack the city of Morianton since the Lamanites had greatly fortified it through their efforts.
They continually brought fresh troops and supplies to that city.
And thus concluded the twenty-ninth year of the judges' reign over the Nephite people.
