At the beginning of the thirtieth year of the judges' reign, on the second day of the first month, Moroni received a letter from Helaman, updating him on what was happening with their people in that region.
These are the words Helaman wrote: My beloved brother Moroni, both in our shared duty to the Lord and in the struggles we face in battle; I have something important to share about our fight in this area.
Look, two thousand sons of the men whom Ammon brought from the land of Nephi—these young men are descendants of Laman, the eldest son of our father Lehi.
I don’t need to remind you about their beliefs or traditions, since you are already familiar with everything related to that.
So, I will simply tell you that two thousand of these young men have taken up their weapons and chosen me as their leader; we are determined to defend our homeland.
You also know about the promise their fathers made not to take up arms against their brothers and shed blood.
But during the twenty-sixth year, when they saw our hardships and struggles on their behalf, they considered breaking their promise and taking up their weapons to help us.
However, I did not allow them to break this promise, believing that God would give us strength so we wouldn’t suffer more from keeping their oath.
But here is something that brings us great joy. In the twenty-sixth year, I, Helaman, led these two thousand young men to the city of Judea to help Antipus, whom you had appointed to lead the people in that area.
I joined my two thousand sons (who truly deserve to be called my sons) to Antipus’s army, and he was very grateful because his soldiers had been greatly diminished by the Lamanites, who had killed many of our valiant men, leaving us to mourn.
Still, we find comfort in knowing that those who died did so fighting for their country and their God, and they are at peace.
The Lamanites had also captured many prisoners, all of whom were top leaders, as they spared no others. We believe they are now in the land of Nephi if they haven’t been killed.
These are the cities the Lamanites took after spilling the blood of many of our brave men:
The land of Manti, the city of Manti, the city of Zeezrom, the city of Cumeni, and the city of Antiparah.
These were the cities they controlled when I got to Judea, and I found Antipus and his men working hard to strengthen the city.
They were exhausted both physically and mentally, having fought hard during the day and worked through the night to defend their cities; because of this, they experienced great distress.
Now they were determined to either win here or die trying; so you can imagine how much hope and joy my small group, especially my sons, brought them.
When the Lamanites saw that Antipus had received additional strength to his army, they were commanded by Ammoron to not attack the city of Judea or us.
Thus, we were blessed by the Lord; had they attacked us in our weak state, they could have destroyed our small army, but we were spared.
Ammoron instructed them to hold onto the cities they had taken. This concluded the twenty-sixth year. At the start of the twenty-seventh year, we readied our city and ourselves for defense.
We wanted the Lamanites to come at us, as we didn't want to attack them in their strongholds.
We had spies watching all around to keep an eye on the Lamanites so they wouldn’t sneak past us at day or night to assault our cities to the north.
We knew those cities weren’t strong enough to defend against them; therefore, we were hoping if they did pass us, we could hit them from behind while they faced Antipus in front. We thought we could overpower them, but we were left disappointed.
The Lamanites didn't dare pass us with their full army, nor even with part of it, out of fear that they might not be strong enough to win and would be overrun.
They didn't dare march down to the city of Zarahemla, nor did they cross the head of Sidon to reach Nephihah.
With their forces, they were set on holding the cities they had captured.
In the second month of this year, we received a lot of supplies from the fathers of my two thousand sons.
Additionally, we were sent two thousand men from the land of Zarahemla. So we prepared ourselves with ten thousand men and the supplies we needed, along with provisions for their families.
Seeing our forces grow every day and more supplies arriving, the Lamanites started to get anxious and attempted to disrupt our supply chain.
When we noticed the Lamanites becoming uneasy, we wanted to execute a clever strategy against them; Antipus directed me to lead my young sons to a nearby city as if we were delivering provisions there.
We were to march near the city of Antiparah, pretending we were headed to a city beyond it along the coast.
So we marched out, as if delivering our supplies to that city.
Antipus led a part of his army as well, leaving the rest to defend the city. He waited until I had moved out with my small army before heading near Antiparah.
The strongest and most numerous Lamanite army was stationed in Antiparah.
When their spies informed them, they mobilized their army and marched against us.
We fled before them to the north, successfully leading away the strongest Lamanite army;
Even at a significant distance, when they saw Antipus's army pursuing them bravely, they didn’t turn aside but kept their path, aiming to eliminate us before Antipus caught up with them and avoiding being cornered by our forces.
Seeing our danger, Antipus hurried his army forward. But since it was night, he couldn’t catch up with us, nor could he reach the Lamanites; so we set up camp for the night.
Before dawn, the Lamanites were still pursuing us. We were not strong enough to confront them, and I couldn’t bear the thought of my young sons falling into their hands; so we continued our trek into the wilderness.
They wouldn’t turn to the right or left to avoid being surrounded; and I also wouldn't do so to keep from being captured, knowing we wouldn’t be able to stand up against them and would be killed while they escaped; thus, we fled that entire day into the wilderness until dark.
When morning came, we saw the Lamanites on our trail again, and we fled from them once more.
However, they didn’t follow us too far before they stopped; it was the third day of the seventh month.
Now, whether they were caught by Antipus, we weren't sure, but I told my men: We don’t know if they halted to draw us in so they can trap us;
So what do you think, my sons, should we go into battle against them?
I tell you, my dear brother Moroni, I have never witnessed such bravery, not even among all the Nephites.
As I always referred to them as my sons (since they were all quite young), they replied: Father, God is with us and will not allow us to fall; so let’s go forward; we don’t want to harm our brothers if they leave us alone, so let’s move before they overpower Antipus’s army.
Though they had never fought before, they feared no death and felt more concerned about their fathers’ freedom than their own lives; they had been taught by their mothers that if they didn’t doubt, God would protect them.
They recounted to me their mothers’ words, telling me: We trust our mothers knew this.
So I returned with my two thousand to confront those Lamanites pursuing us. When I arrived, I found that Antipus’s forces had caught up with them, and a fierce battle was underway.
Antipus’s army, exhausted from their rapid march, was about to fall prey to the Lamanites; had I not returned with my two thousand, they would not have succeeded.
Antipus had been killed, along with many of his leaders, due to their fatigue from marching too fast, leading to confusion among Antipus's men as their leaders fell, and they began to retreat before the Lamanites.
Encouraged by this, the Lamanites launched a strong attack when Helaman and my two thousand arrived from behind, and we struck them hard, causing them to halt and turn to face us.
When Antipus’s people saw the Lamanites diverting their attention, they rallied their forces and attacked the Lamanites from behind.
Then we, the Nephites, the people of Antipus, and I with my two thousand men, surrounded the Lamanites and defeated them; indeed, they were forced to surrender their weapons and themselves as prisoners.
When they surrendered to us, I counted the young men who fought beside me, worried that many might have been killed.
But to my immense relief, not a single one of them had fallen! They fought as though they had divine strength; indeed, no men had ever been known to fight so valiantly; their courage so intimidated the Lamanites that they surrendered.
With no place to safely hold our prisoners without exposing them to the Lamanite armies, we sent them to the land of Zarahemla along with some of Antipus's men who were still alive; the rest I joined with my young Ammonites and we headed back to the city of Judea.
