He wrote once more to the governor of the land, Pahoran, and here are the words he wrote: Listen, I am addressing this letter to Pahoran, in the city of Zarahemla, who is the chief judge and governor of the land, and to all others who have been chosen by this people to lead and handle the affairs of this war.
I have something to say to you that is quite serious; you know that you have been chosen to gather soldiers, equip them with swords, daggers, and all kinds of weapons, and send them out against the Lamanites, wherever they invade our land.
Now I want to tell you that my men, Helaman, and I have suffered tremendously; yes, we have experienced hunger, thirst, exhaustion, and various hardships.
But if this were all we had endured, we wouldn’t be complaining.
However, many of our people have been killed; thousands have died by the sword, and this might have been prevented if you had provided sufficient strength and support to our armies. Truly, you have neglected us greatly.
Now, I want to understand the reason for this severe neglect; I want to know why you seem to be indifferent.
Can you really sit on your thrones, ignoring the suffering around you, while your enemies are causing death around you? Yes, while they are killing thousands of your brothers—
Yes, those who looked to you for protection, those who have placed you in a position where you could have helped them, sent armies to support them, and saved thousands from being killed.
But that’s not all— you have even withheld food from them to the point where many have fought and died for their love for these people; yes, they have sacrificed their lives even when facing starvation because of your alarming neglect.
And now, my dear brothers—you should be dear to me; you should have acted with more urgency for the safety and freedom of this people; yet you have neglected them to such an extent that the blood of thousands will weigh heavily on your heads in judgment; yes, God has heard all their cries and knows all their sufferings—
Do you think you could simply sit on your thrones and because of God’s great goodness do nothing and expect Him to rescue you? If you think this way, then you are mistaken.
Do you think that the deaths of so many of your brothers are due to their wickedness? I tell you, if you think this you are wrong; many have fallen in battle, and this reveals your own shortcomings;
For God allows the righteous to be killed so that justice may be served to the wicked; thus, don’t assume that the righteous are lost if they die; indeed, they return to the peace of the Lord their God.
And now I fear greatly that God’s judgment will come upon this people because of their extreme laziness, especially the laziness of our leaders, and their great neglect of their brothers, especially those who have died.
If it weren’t for the wickedness that started at our highest levels, we could have stood against our enemies and they wouldn’t have gained any power over us.
Yes, if not for the fighting among ourselves; and if it weren’t for the king-men, who caused so much bloodshed between us; during the time of our internal conflict, if we had united our strength as we used to; if those king-men had pursued true freedom and joined us in facing our enemies instead of turning their swords against us, which led to our internal strife; if we had fought against them with God’s strength, we would have conquered our enemies, as He promised.
But now the Lamanites are attacking us, taking over our lands, killing our people including our women and children, and capturing them, causing them to suffer greatly, all due to the wickedness of those who seek power, yes, those king-men.
But what more can I say about this? We don’t even know if you are trying to gain authority for yourselves. We don’t know if you are betraying our country.
Or have you neglected us because you are secure in your position and surrounded by safety, making you forget to send us food and troops to reinforce our armies?
Have you forgotten God’s commandments? Have you forgotten the captivity of our ancestors? Have you forgotten how many times we were saved from our enemies?
Or do you think that the Lord will continue to save us while you just sit on your thrones and refuse to use the resources He has provided us?
Will you remain idle while thousands around you, and even tens of thousands, are also idle, while countless others are suffering and dying at the border of the land, wounded and bleeding?
Do you think God will view you as innocent while you do nothing and watch this happen? I say to you, No. Remember that God has stated that the inner man must be purged first, and then the outer man will be purified also.
And unless you repent of your actions, begin to work, and send food and men to us, as well as to Helaman, so he can defend the parts of our country that he has recaptured, and that we might also regain what we have lost here, it is wise that we do not engage the Lamanites until we have first set ourselves in order, starting with the leadership of our government.
And unless you respond to my letter and prove to me you are truly committed to freedom, and strive to strengthen our armies and provide them with food, I will leave some of my free men here to protect this portion of our land, trusting that the strength and blessings of God will be upon them, so no other force can withstand them—
This is due to their immense faith and patience in their trials—
I will then come to you, and if there’s anyone among you who desires freedom, even if just a flicker of freedom remains, I will incite rebellion among you, until those who seek to seize power and authority are eliminated.
Yes, I do not fear your power or authority, but I do fear my God; it is according to His commandments that I take up my sword to defend my country, and because of your wrongdoings, we have suffered substantial losses.
It is truly time, yes, the time is now, that unless you rally for the defense of your country and your families, the sword of justice is poised above you; yes, it will fall upon you and bring about your total destruction.
I am waiting for help from you; and unless you provide us relief, I will come to you, even to the land of Zarahemla, and strike you with the sword, so that you will no longer hinder our march towards freedom.
For behold, the Lord will not allow you to flourish in your wickedness and destroy His righteous people.
Can you think that the Lord will spare you and come down in judgment against the Lamanites, when their hatred stems from the traditions passed down from their ancestors, which has only intensified by those who have turned against us, while your wickedness is fueled by your desire for glory and the empty pursuits of the world?
You know you break God’s laws; you know you trample them underfoot. Behold, the Lord says to me: If those you have chosen as your leaders do not repent of their sins and wrongdoing, you will face battle against them.
Now behold, I, Moroni, am bound by the agreement I made to keep my God’s commandments; therefore, I urge you to stick to God’s word, and quickly send me supplies and your men, also to Helaman.
And if you do not do this, I will come to you quickly; for God will not allow us to perish from hunger; He will ensure we receive your food, even if it requires conflict. So make sure you fulfill God’s word.
I am Moroni, your chief captain. I do not seek power, but aim to dismantle it. I seek not worldly honor, but the glory of my God, and the freedom and well-being of my country. And with this, I close my letter.
