These are the words of Alma and Amulek that were spoken to the people in the land of Ammonihah. They were imprisoned but miraculously freed by God's power, as recorded by Alma.
This account includes chapters up to 14.
Alma tells the people of Ammonihah to turn away from their sins. The Lord will show mercy to the Lamanites in the last days. If the Nephites reject the light, they will face destruction from the Lamanites. The Son of God will soon come to save those who repent, are baptized, and have faith in Him. About 82 B.C.
Once again, I, Alma, was instructed by God to take Amulek and go preach to the people of Ammonihah. As I started to speak to them, they began to argue with me, asking:
Who are you? Do you think we should trust the words of just one man, even if he claims the world is going to end?
They didn't understand what they were saying because they didn't realize that the world would indeed come to an end.
They also insisted, "We won't believe you if you claim this great city will be destroyed in a single day."
They didn't understand God's ability to perform amazing acts, as they were stubborn and resistant.
They questioned, "Who is God? Why would He only send one man to tell us about such great and marvelous events?"
They tried to grab me, but they couldn’t. I stood firm and confidently declared to them:
Look, you wicked and corrupt generation, how have you ignored the teachings of your ancestors? You have quickly forgotten God's commandments.
Don’t you remember how our father, Lehi, was brought out of Jerusalem by God’s hand? Don’t you remember how they were guided through the wilderness?
Have you forgotten how many times He saved our ancestors from their enemies and protected them from destruction, even from their own family?
If it weren’t for His unmatched power, mercy, and patience, we would have been wiped off the earth a long time ago, maybe even ending up in a state of endless suffering.
Listen, I’m telling you that God commands you to repent; if you don’t, you won’t inherit His kingdom. But that’s not all—He commands you to repent, or He will completely destroy you from the earth; yes, He will visit you in His anger, and He won’t hold back.
Do you not remember what He told Lehi: If you keep My commandments, you will prosper in the land? And again, if you don’t keep My commandments, you will be cut off from My presence.
I want you to recall that since the Lamanites haven’t followed God's commandments, they have been cut off from Him. We see the truth of God's word in this—they have been separated from Him since their wrongdoing began.
However, I tell you, it will be easier for them on judgment day than for you, if you continue in your sins. It will also be easier for them in this life than for you, unless you repent.
Many blessings are promised to the Lamanites; their ancestors’ traditions have kept them in ignorance. Therefore, the Lord will have mercy on them and allow them to exist in the land longer.
They will eventually come to believe in His word and recognize that their ancestors' traditions are wrong; many of them will be saved because the Lord will show mercy to anyone who calls on His name.
But I say to you, if you continue in your sins, your time in this land will come to an end; the Lamanites will be sent against you; if you do not repent, they will come unexpectedly, bringing complete destruction, driven by God’s fierce anger.
God will not allow you to continue living in your sins and destroy His people. I tell you, He would prefer that the Lamanites destroy all the Nephites, if it means they would fall into sin and wrongdoing after receiving so much knowledge from the Lord;
Yes, after being such a favored people of the Lord; after being blessed above all other nations; after having all things revealed to them as per their desires and prayers regarding what has been, what is, and what is to come;
Having been visited by God's Spirit; having spoken with angels and heard from the Lord; having received the spirit of prophecy and revelation, along with many gifts, including speaking in tongues, preaching, receiving the Holy Ghost, and translation;
Yes, after being brought out of Jerusalem by the Lord; after being saved from famine and sickness, as well as all kinds of diseases; after growing strong in battle to avoid destruction; after being freed from bondage time after time, and being preserved until now; they have become prosperous and rich in many things—
Now I say to you, if this people, who have received so many blessings from the Lord, were to act against the knowledge and guidance they have, it would be far worse for them than for the Lamanites.
The Lord’s promises are for the Lamanites, but if you sin, they do not apply to you; for has the Lord not explicitly promised that if you rebel against Him, you will be utterly destroyed from the earth?
And now, to prevent your destruction, God has sent His angel to visit many of His people, telling them they must go out and boldly proclaim to this people, saying: Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is close!
And soon the Son of God will come in His glory; His glory will be that of the Only Begotten of the Father, filled with grace, justice, and truth, overflowing with patience, mercy, and long-suffering, ready to hear His people's cries and respond to their prayers.
Look, He comes to redeem those who will be baptized in repentance and have faith in His name.
So, prepare the way for the Lord, for the time is near when everyone will receive the consequences of their actions, depending on whether they have been righteous or evil. If they have been good, they will gain salvation through Jesus Christ; if they have been wicked, they will face destruction as per the devil's grasp.
Now behold, this is the angel’s voice, calling out to the people.
And now, dear brothers, you are my kin, deserving of love, and you should produce good works that show genuine repentance, realizing that your hearts have been hardened against God’s word, and that you are lost and fallen.
When I, Alma, said these things, the people became angry with me because I called them hard-hearted and stubborn.
They were also upset because I referred to them as lost and fallen, and they sought to seize me and throw me into prison.
But the Lord did not allow them to take me and imprison me at that moment.
Then, Amulek came forward and began to preach to them too. While not all of Amulek’s words are recorded, a portion of his teachings can be found in this book.
