One king follows another—some are good folks; others, not so much—when the good folks are in charge, the people sure do flourish and find favor with the Good Lord.
So, it happened that Shez, a kin of Heth—’cause Heth had bit the dust during a famine, and the rest of his folks was just Shez—well, Shez took it upon himself to round up the ragged bunch again.
Then, Shez recalled the hard times his kin faced, and he set about fixin’ up a righteous kingdom; he remembered how the Lord had helped Jared and his brother cross the big ol’ water; and he laid down the path of the Lord, and he had him some young’uns – sons and daughters.
But his firstborn, a fella named Shez, went and turned against him; still, that Shez got himself in a heap of trouble from a bandit, 'cause his pockets were heavier than a Texas steer, and brought peace back to his old man.
Before long, his father was busy buildin' up cities all 'round the land, and folks started settlin' back into their places. Shez lived to be as old as a dusty fence post; he had himself a boy named Riplakish. Then he kicked the bucket, and Riplakish took the reins.
As luck would have it, Riplakish didn’t follow the good path laid out by the Lord; nah, he rode roughshod over folks with heaps of wives and other women, makin’ life mighty hard for the people; he piled on the taxes like a rancher stackin’ hay, and with that gold, he built himself a mess of fancy buildings.
He went and got himself a throne as fine as a new saddle; built prisons too, and if a body didn’t pay up, they were throwed in the slammer; if they were too broke to cough up cash, they got tossed in there too; worked 'em day and night just to scrape by; and if someone dared to lay down on the job, well, they were lookin' down the barrel of death.
So, he wrangled himself all the fine crafts, even refined gold from those stuck in his prisons; every kind of fancy work was done behind bars. And as if that weren’t enough trouble, he made life a whole lot worse for the folks with his misdeeds and wickedness.
After he wore the crown for forty-two long years, the folks had enough and rose up against him; war flared up again, and Riplakish ended up on the wrong end of someone’s gun, and his kin got chased outta the land.
Years went by, and Morianton, bein' from Riplakish’s bloodline, rounded up a gang of outlaws and rode into battle against the locals; he took control of a heap of towns, and the fighting got real serious and stretched on for many years, and mighty Morianton set himself up as king over the land.
Once he was king, he lightened the load on the folks, and they warmed up to him, even anointin’ him as their king.
He did take care of the people, but didn’t do right by himself, what with all his sinful ways; thus, he got himself cut off from the Lord’s presence.
Well, Morianton built a slew of cities, and folks got rich under his rule, fillin' their pockets with gold and silver, growin’ grain, and raisin’ cattle and sheep – all the bounties returned to ‘em.
Morianton stuck around a good long while, then he fathered Kim; Kim stepped up and took the reins after old Morianton passed on. He ruled for eight years, then he went to meet his maker, but Kim didn’t do right by the Lord, so he fell outta favor.
His brother couldn’t stand him and started a rebellion, catchin’ him up and keepin’ him in chains; and Kim spent all his days in captivity, even fathering sons and daughters while he was locked up, and in his twilight years, he had a son named Levi; then he passed on.
Levi found himself servin’ out his sentence after his dad was gone, for another forty-two years. He took on the king of the land in battle, and through grit and gumption, he snagged the kingdom for himself.
Once he had the kingdom in his grip, he walked the straight path under the Lord’s watch; folks prospered in the land, and Levi lived to a ripe old age, raisin’ lots of young’uns, includin’ Corom, who he made king after him.
Corom did right by the Lord all his days, havin' himself a heap of sons and daughters; after a long life, he passed on, just like all folks do, and then Kish took over.
Kish kicked the bucket too, and that meant Lib stepped into the saddle.
Now, Lib also kept on doin' good in the Lord’s eyes. In his time, them venomous snakes met their end. So, they rode south to round up some grub for the people ‘cause there was no shortage of wild game in those woods. Lib became quite the hunter himself.
They put together a bustling town near the narrow pass, right where the sea split the land in two.
They kept the southern land wild for huntin’, and the northern land was packed with folks.
These folks were hard workers, buyin’, sellin’, and tradin’ to make a buck.
They got into workin' with all manner of ore, makin' gold, silver, iron, brass, and all sorts of metals; they dug deep into the ground, heapin’ up mounds of dirt to haul out the shiny stuff, like gold, silver, iron, and copper. They crafted all kinds of fine items too.
They got themselves silks and finely woven linens; they made all sorts of cloth to cover their hides.
They cranked out every kind of tool to work the land, tools for plowin', sowin', reaping, hoin’, and thrashin’.
And they built tools for workin’ their critters.
They fashioned up weapons for war. Man, they made all sorts of intricate gear.
There ain't been a people more blessed than they were, and the Lord sure took a shine to them. They lived in the best land ever, 'cause the Lord had said so.
Lib hung around for many years, raisin’ sons and daughters, and he even had himself a boy named Hearthom.
So, Hearthom took his father’s spot. After twenty-four years of reignin’, the kingdom got snatched away from him. He ended up servin’ many years in captivity, an’ that was how he spent the rest of his days.
He fathered Heth, who lived out his whole life in chains. Heth had Aaron, and ol’ Aaron too spent his days in captivity; then Aaron had Amnigaddah, who also knew nothin’ but captivity in his lifetime; then came Coriantum, who lived locked up all his days; and finally, he fathered Com.
Com took half the kingdom for himself. He ruled that part for forty-two years, and he clashed with King Amgid, fightin’ on and on for many years, during which Com wrangled control away from Amgid and seized the rest of the kingdom.
But during Com’s time, a scourge of robbers crept into the land; they started up old tricks, takin’ oaths like folks used to do and tryin’ to tear the kingdom apart.
Well, Com fought ‘em tooth and nail; but try as he might, he just couldn’t get the upper hand on ‘em.
