Well now, it sure was a wild time back in the days of the Jaredite folk, what with all the feudin', fighting and downright devilry that ruled their lives. Prophets warned 'em they was bound for ruin if they didn’t turn their ways ‘round and seek the good Lord, but folks just wouldn't listen.
During the reign of ole Com, a heap of prophets rode in, tellin' of a mighty disaster that’d befall the people if they didn’t mend their crooked ways and steer clear of murderin' their fellow man.
But lo and behold, them prophets were cast aside like trash by the crowd, and they made a run for cover with Com, seekin’ shelter ‘cause the folks were out to take ‘em down.
Them prophets laid a lotta words on Com, and bless his soul, he caught a break for the rest of his days.
He lived a long stretch, finally passin’ on a young'un named Shiblom; Shiblom took the reins after him. But then that brother of Shiblom rose up against him, and that’s when a mighty clash broke out all over the land like a prairie fire.
Shiblom's brother stirred up the trouble real bad and had all them prophets who warned of the doom put six feet under.
The land was a-messin’ up good, ‘cause they’d foretold a fierce curse that'd rain down on the land and its people, talkin' about a wretched destruction like none ever seen before. If they didn’t shape up, they’d be just a pile of bones scattered on the ground.
But them folks paid no mind to the Lord’s callin’, too caught up in their underhanded plots; thus, wars started breakin' out in every nook and cranny, along with famines and sicknesses, bringin' them to a ruin the likes of which was unheard of in all the lands, and this all happened during the time of Shiblom.
Yet, the people began to have a change of heart about their wicked ways; and when they did, the Lord showed ‘em a bit of mercy.
Then one day, Shiblom was cut down, and Seth got snatched up and lived under lock and key for the rest of his days.
Next thing ya know, Ahah, his boy, snatched up the crown, ruled the folks all his days, and went ahead and did all sorts of naughty deeds, spillin' a lot of blood; and he didn’t last too long.
Ethem, bein’ a kin of Ahah, took the throne, and wouldn’t ya know, he was no better, dabblin' in wickedness during his stretch.
When Ethem was at the helm, a whole passel of prophets came ‘round again, hollerin’ the news that the Lord was fixin’ to wipe ‘em off the face of the earth unless they swooped down and repented.
But them folks just hardened their hearts and turned a deaf ear to the good prophets; and so, the prophets hung their heads in sorrow and rode off from ‘em.
Ethem kept handin' down judgment, but it was all twisted and wrong, and he fathered Moron. Moron stepped into his boots next, and wouldn’t ya know, he followed suit with more wrongdoings in the Lord’s eyes.
Then a rebellion broke loose ‘mongst the folks, all sparked by a bunch of sneaky folks lookin’ to grab power and riches. A tough hombre showed up among ‘em, spreadin’ sin and throwin’ down on Moron, and he managed to lay waste to half the kingdom, holdin' on to his piece for quite a stretch.
But Moron wasn’t down ’n out for long, and he fought back to reclaim his kingdom.
Then up pops another strong fella; turns out, he was kin to the brother of Jared.
That same fella took Moron down and grabbed the reins for himself; Moron was left sittin' in a cell for the rest of his days and had a son named Coriantor.
Coriantor spent all his days locked up, too.
In Coriantor’s time, more prophets strolled in, spoutin' all kinds of wonders and callin’ the people to repent, lettin’ ‘em know that if they didn’t shape up, the Lord God would rain down judgment to their total ruin;
And that the Lord God would raise up another group to take over the land, just like He did for their ancestors.
But them folks turned their backs on all the prophets' warnings, lost in their secretive schemes and wicked acts.
Then Coriantor went and had himself a boy named Ether before passing on, havin' spent his whole life in captivity.
