Well now, reckon it was a spell in the days of Ether, when ol' Coriantumr was ridin' high as king over the whole dang territory.
Ether was the Lord's mouthpiece, and he didn’t waste no time in hollerin' at folks, 'cause that spirit of the Lord was bubbled up in him like a spring in the desert.
He hollered from dawn till the sun dropped down low, urging folks to put their faith in God and turn their ways, or else they'd be headin' for trouble, sayin' that with faith, all things get done—
So, anyone who trusts in God can count on a brighter tomorrow, you betcha, a seat right next to the Almighty, 'cause hope comes from faith and keeps a fella anchored, steady and doin' good deeds, always on the trail to give glory to God.
Then Ether laid down some high-falutin' prophecies that left the people scratchin' their heads, 'cause they couldn't believe a word of it—sight was a lazy ol' dog.
Now, I, Moroni, wanna chew the cud on these here matters; I'm fixin' to tell the world that faith is what we hope for and can't see; so don’t go disputin' on account of what ain't in front of your nose, 'cause you ain't gonna get no proof 'til you pass the test of your faith.
It was through faith that Christ showed up to our ancestors after he kicked the bucket and got back to life; they didn't lay eyes on him 'til after they believed, so some of 'em had to have trust, or he wouldn't have revealed himself to nobody.
But on account of the faith folks put in him, he let 'em in on the truth and gave glory to the Father, makin' a trail for others to receive that heavenly gift, hopin' for them things they ain't even seen.
So, y'all, you too can have that hope and get in on the gift, if you just got the grit to believe.
See here, it was by faith that the ancients were called by the holy order of God.
And so it was that with faith, the law of Moses got handed down. But with God's Son, a finer path was paved, and it's by faith that it all came to be.
'Cause if folks ain't got faith, God ain't gonna pull no miracles outta the hat; so he didn't show up 'til after they'd shown their faith.
Look yonder, it was Alma and Amulek’s faith that made that prison come crashin' down.
And it was the faith of Nephi and Lehi that turned the Lamanites all around, makin' 'em get dunked with fire and the Holy Ghost.
And it was Ammon and his pals' faith that pulled off a miracle like no other among the Lamanites.
Yep, and everyone who worked miracles did it by faith, both before Christ stomped on the scene and after.
Through faith, them three disciples received a promise they wouldn’t taste death, but that promise came after they put their trust in the Lord.
Ain't no one pulled off miracles 'til their faith came first; they had to believe in the Son of God before anything happened.
There were many folks whose faith was stout as a bull, even way before Christ waltzed in, they couldn't be kept from peepin' through the veil, and they saw with their own eyes the things they'd already seen through the vision of faith, and it made 'em mighty glad.
Take note, we got this record that one of 'em was the brother of Jared; his faith in God was so solid that when the Lord stretched out his finger, the brother of Jared’s eyes were sharper than a hawk, and he couldn't miss it on account of the word he had received through faith.
After the brother of Jared got a glimpse of the Lord's finger, 'cause of that promise he wrangled up by faith, the Lord couldn’t hide nothin' from him; he showed him everything, 'cause he couldn’t keep him from peekin' behind the veil.
By faith, my forefathers landed the promise that these things would come 'round to their kin through the Gentiles, so here I am, commanded by the Lord, even Jesus Christ.
And I said to him: Lord, them Gentiles are sure gonna poke fun at this stuff, on account of our fiddly way of writin’; you’ve given us the gift of gab through faith, but we ain’t quite so sharp with the pen; this lot can yap up a storm thanks to the Holy Ghost you blessed 'em with;
But when it comes to wranglin' words on paper, we fumble like greenhorns. Ain't no wonder our writin' ain't as mighty as the brother of Jared's, 'cause when he put pen to parchment, it hit harder than a rattlesnake bite.
Our words are powerful, no doubt, but we can't seem to wrangle 'em right, so when we try to write, we trip over our own tongues, and I get mighty worried the Gentiles will have a good laugh at our expense.
And when I laid that out, the Lord piped up sayin': Fools might snicker, but they'll end up sufferin'; and my grace is enough for the meek, that they won't take advantage of your faults;
And if folks come to me, I’ll show 'em their shortcomings. I let folks have weakness so they can be humble; and my grace is good enough for anyone who lowers their head before me; for if they bow before me and trust in me, then I'll turn weak things into strong ones for 'em.
Look here, I'll show the Gentiles just where they stumble, and I'll make it clear that faith, hope, and charity leads folks right to me—the spring of all righteousness.
And I, Moroni, hearing this, felt my soul ease, and I said: O Lord, your righteous will be done, for I know you take care of folks according to how strong their faith is;
For the brother of Jared said to Mount Zerin, "Get outta the way!"—and it did. If he hadn't had faith, it wouldn't have budged; so you work once folks show that faith.
'Cause that's how you showed yourself to your disciples; after they believed and spoke in your name, you revealed yourself to 'em with a power that shook the ground.
And I also recall you sayin’ you made a home for man, even among the grand settlements of your Father, where man might hope for something even better; so a fella's gotta hope, or he's missin’ out on the inheritance you got ready for him.
And you mentioned you loved the world so much, even to lay down your life for it, just so you could take it back and prepare a place for all your children.
And now I know this love you held for the children of men is what you call charity; so if folks ain't got charity, they can't set foot in the place you got ready in your Father’s grand houses.
So I reckon from this here truth you laid down, if the Gentiles don’t show love, on account of our shortcomings, you’ll test 'em and take away their talents, givin’ 'em to folks who got a whole lotta it to spare.
And it came to pass that I poured my heart out to the Lord, hopin’ he'd gift the Gentiles with grace so they might find that charity.
Then the Lord said to me: If they ain't got charity, that ain't for you to fuss over, you’ve been true; so your garments'll be washed clean. And ‘cause you’ve seen just how weak you are, you’ll be made strong enough to sit in the place I’ve set aside for you among the mansions of my Father.
Now, I, Moroni, tip my hat to the Gentiles, and to my kin I hold dear, until we meet again before the judgment seat of Christ, where every soul will see that my garments ain’t stained with your blood.
And then you'll know I've laid eyes on Jesus, and he spoke to me face to face, just like one fella talks to another in plain words, speakin' on these matters;
And I’ve only jotted down a few ‘cause of my fumblin' with writin’.
So now, I’d nudge ya to seek out this Jesus that the prophets and apostles waxed poetical about, that the grace of God the Father, the Lord Jesus Christ, and the Holy Ghost, which bears witness of 'em, may be planted in you forever. Amen.
