Well now, I’m a-gonna tell ya ‘bout the events gone on ‘round these parts, where the good folks wrote tales of destruction ‘bout their kin and kind.
Y'see, them folks turned a blind eye to every word o’ Ether, who laid it out plain as day from the start of mankind. After them waters pulled back, this here land turned out to be the finest patch o' ground there ever was—picked by the good Lord himself. So, the Lord wanted everyone who roamed this land to saddle up and serve Him proper.
And this patch would be where the New Jerusalem would come a-driftin' down from the skies and be a holy spot for the Almighty.
Now, Ether caught a glimpse of Christ's days ahead, and he hollered ‘bout a New Jerusalem rooted right here.
He jawed some more ‘bout the folks of Israel, and the original Jerusalem from whence Lehi rolled in—once it got wrecked big-time, it’d be rebuilt as the Lord’s holy town. So, it ain't truly a new one, ‘cause it had a past, but it sure would get fixed up nice and turn into the holy city of the Lord; and it’d be built up once more for the house of Israel.
Now, a New Jerusalem’s fixin’ to rise up right here on this land, for them leftovers of Joseph’s seed, just like a sign from days of old.
Just as Joseph brought his old man down to Egypt then carried on till he passed, the Lord saved a remnant of Joseph’s lineage outta Jerusalem, to show mercy so they wouldn’t bite the dust—similar-like how He spared Joseph's pa.
So, the rest o’ Joseph’s kin will find their roots on this land; it’ll be their rightful home, and they’ll build up a holy city for the Lord, just like the Jerusalem of yore; they won't find themselves confounded again till the end times when this ol' earth lets go.
Then we’re a-lookin’ at new skies and fresh ground; it’ll be like the old but newer than a spring calf, ‘cause the old will fade away and all things will be brand new.
Now, along comes the New Jerusalem; blessed are them who make their home there, wearin’ clean threads washed in the Lamb's blood; they’re the ones countin' among the remnants of Joseph’s seed from the house of Israel.
And then the old Jerusalem’ll ride in too; its folks are blessed, 'cause they've been scrubbed clean in the blood of the Lamb, gathered up from all corners of the earth, and outta the northern lands, to fulfill that promise God made with Abraham long ago.
So when all these things hit the fan, it's just like the scripture says, first folks will come to be last, and last folks will end up first.
Now I was ready to jot down more, but got the brakes pulled on me; those prophecies of Ether were wild and wonderful, but they didn’t think much of him, kicked him aside. He took to hiding in a nook of a rock during the day, and at night he’d stake out what was comin’ for the people.
So in the hollow of that rock, he finished this here record, watchin' the destruction unfold by night.
In that same year he got dumped by the folks, a mighty war broke out among ‘em, ‘cause lots of strong fellers rose up, gunning for Coriantumr with their sneaky, wicked plots folks had been chattin' ‘bout.
Coriantumr, well he’d been studying every trick in the book of warfare, so he stood his ground and faced 'em who wanted his hide.
But he didn’t take no road to repentance, neither did his fair young'uns; not a one among the pretty sons and daughters of Cohor nor Corihor wanted to turn back neither. In fact, nary a soul among all the pretty much just plowed ahead with their sins.
So in the first year Ether was tucked away in his rock hole, loads of folks got taken down by them secret schemers, fightin’ against Coriantumr to claim the kingdom.
The sons of Coriantumr saw a heap of battle and bled a whole lot.
Then came the second year, the Lord sent word to Ether, told him to go speak to Coriantumr sayin’ if he’d turn his ways ‘round, along with his whole household, the Lord would hand him back his reign and spare the folks—
Else, they’d be done for along with everyone in his clan, except for him. He’d only stick around to see the prophecies fulfilled ‘bout another folks claimin’ the land as their own; Coriantumr’d be buried by ’em, and all souls would be wiped clean ‘cept for Coriantumr himself.
But it came to be that Coriantumr wouldn’t budge an inch, nor could his kin nor the people; the fighting just kept on, and they wanted to take Ether down too, but he skedaddled outta there and found another nook in the rock.
Next thing you know, Shared rose up and took to battle against Coriantumr; he put the old boy through the wringer until in the third year, he took him captive.
In the fourth year, the sons o’ Coriantumr went and took it to Shared and got their kingdom back for their old man.
Then it kinda kicked off a war all over the landscape, each cowboy and his crew fightin’ for what they wanted.
There were bandits galore, and let me tell ya, all kinds of wickedness was afoot on the land.
Coriantumr got himself all riled up at Shared, so he gathered his men and went at him like wolves in a pack; they met up in a fierce showdown in Gilgal Valley, and boy, the fight got real ugly.
For three long days, Shared battled with him. Then Coriantumr finally bested him and chased him to the plains of Heshlon.
But out on those plains, Shared took another swing at Coriantumr; he got the drop on him, pushin’ him back to Gilgal Valley once more.
Coriantumr then took the fight to Shared in Gilgal, and this time he got the upper hand and took Shared down for good.
But Shared caught Coriantumr a bad one on the thigh, and he couldn't ride into battle again for two whole years, where blood was spillin’ all over the land, with no one to rein it in.
