The brother of Jared laid eyes on the finger of the Lord as He touched sixteen stones—Christ revealed His spirit body to the brother of Jared—Folks with perfect knowledge can't be kept from behind the veil—Interpretin' tools were provided to shed light on the Jaredite record.
And so it happened that the brother of Jared, (who had himself prepped a total of eight vessels) made his way up to the mountain they called Shelem, which was mighty tall, and he shaped outta a rock sixteen little stones; they were crystal clear, kinda like seein' through glass; he took 'em in his hands up to the top of that mountain and hollered once more to the Lord, sayin':
Oh Lord, You told us we’d be surrounded by floods. Now look here, Lord, and don't be mad at Your servant 'cause I ain't perfect in front of You; we know You're holy and hang out in the heavens, and we ain’t worthy before You; since the fall, our hearts have been all kinds of bad; still, Lord, You gave us a rule to call on You, so we could receive what we wish for from You.
Now look here, Lord, You’ve laid the smackdown on us 'cause of our wrongdoings and kicked us out to wander in this wilderness for years; yet, You’ve been merciful to us. Oh Lord, have pity on me, and let go of Your anger towards these folks; don’t let 'em try and cross this wild sea in the dark, but check out these stones I shaped from the rock.
I know, Lord, You’ve got all the power and can do whatever suits You for the good of man; so please touch these stones, Lord, with Your finger, and make 'em glow in the dark; they'll shine for us in these vessels we’ve prepared, so we can have light while we cross the sea.
Look yonder, Lord, You can do this. We know You can show some great power, even if it seems small to folks.
And it came to be that when the brother of Jared finished up his sayin’, behold, the Lord stretched out His hand and touched the stones one at a time with His finger. The veil was lifted off the brother of Jared's eyes, and he saw the finger of the Lord; it looked like the finger of a man, flesh and blood; and the brother of Jared hit the ground in fear.
The Lord saw the brother of Jared down on the soil; and He said to him: Get up, why you down there?
He said to the Lord: I saw the finger of the Lord, and I feared You might strike me down; for I didn’t reckon the Lord had flesh and blood.
And the Lord said to him: Because of your faith, you’ve seen that I’ll take on flesh and blood; no man has come before me with such mighty faith like yours; if it weren't so, you couldn't have seen my finger. Did you see more than that?
And he replied: Nah; Lord, show Yourself to me.
And the Lord said to him: Do you believe the words that I’m about to share?
And he replied: Yessiree, Lord, I know You’re tellin' the truth, for You’re a God of truth, and can’t lie.
And when he said these words, behold, the Lord showed Himself to him, saying: Since you know these things, you’re saved from the fall; so you get to come back to my presence; that’s why I reveal Myself to you.
Look here, I’m Him who was ready from the foundation of the world to save my people. Look, I’m Jesus Christ. I’m both the Father and the Son. In me, all folks shall have life eternal, even those who believe in my name; and they'll become my sons and daughters.
And never have I shown myself to a man I created, 'cause never has someone believed in me like you have. Do you see that you were created in my image? Yup, all men were made in the very beginning in my own likeness.
See here, this body you're lookin' at is the body of my spirit; and man, I made 'em after the shape of my spirit; just as I show myself to you in spirit, I’ll show myself to my folks in the flesh.
And now, as I, Moroni, mentioned I couldn’t spill the whole story about these happenings recorded, it’s enough for me to say that Jesus appeared to this man in spirit, just like He did with the Nephites.
And He ministered to him just like He did to the Nephites; all this was to let this man know that He was God, thanks to all the great deeds the Lord had shown him.
And because this man had such knowledge, he couldn’t be kept from peekin’ behind the veil; he saw the finger of Jesus, and when he did, he fell down, fear takin’ hold, 'cause he sure knew it was the Lord’s finger; and his faith hit the ground 'cause he knew, without a doubt.
So, havin' this perfect knowledge of God, he couldn’t stay behind the veil; that’s why he beheld Jesus; and He ministered to him.
And it came to pass that the Lord spoke to the brother of Jared: Now look, you ain’t to let what you’ve seen and heard out into the world, until the time I’ll glorify my name among men; so, keep hold of what you’ve seen and heard, and tell no one.
And remember, when you come to me, you’re to write it all down and seal it up tight, so no one can figure it out; you’ll write it in a way they can’t read.
And lo, I’ll give you these two stones, and you’ll seal 'em up with the things you write.
For see here, the language you’re gonna write I’ve mixed up; so I’ll make sure in my own time that these stones will make what you’ve written clear to man’s sight.
And when the Lord finished talkin', He showed the brother of Jared all the folks who had ever lived, and all those who would be; and He didn’t hold back a thing, all the way to the ends of the earth.
For He had told him before, that if he would just believe, He could show him all things—it would be shown unto him; so the Lord couldn’t hold back anythin' from him, for he knew the Lord could reveal everything.
And the Lord said to him: Write these things down and seal 'em up; and I’ll show 'em in my own good time to the children of men.
And it came to pass that the Lord commanded him to seal up the two stones he got, and not to show 'em, until the Lord reveals them to the children of men.
