The realm gets swapped 'round from kin to kin through a heap of backroom dealings, treachery, and outright murder—Emer laid his eyes on the Son of Righteousness—A whole mess o' prophets holler for folks to turn from their wicked ways—A drought hits hard and fiendish snakes make life miserable for the townsfolk.
Well now, I’m Moroni, and I'm fixin’ to tell my tale. So, here’s how it went: them secret schemes from Akish and his gang done toppled Omer's reign.
But the Good Lord had mercy on Omer, and on his young’uns who weren’t lookin’ to do him harm.
And the Lord gave Omer a dream, warnin’ him to skedaddle outta the territory; so he packed up the family, movin' on over many trails until he got around the hill of Shim, passed by where the Nephites took their final stand, then headed east and landed at a spot they called Ablom, right along the coast. There, he set up camp along with his kids and the whole household, except for Jared and his kin.
Sure enough, Jared got crowned king by the hand of evil; and he handed over his daughter to Akish to wed.
Well, wouldn’t ya know, Akish wanted his father-in-law's head; he called on those he’d sworn an oath to, and they done got the old man’s noggin while he sat on his throne listenin' to his folk.
For that wicked society spread like wildfire, corroding the hearts of the people; and thus Jared got offed right there on his throne, and Akish took his place.
Then Akish got a bee in his bonnet about his own son, so he locked him up in a cell, lettin’ him starve 'til he snuffed it.
Now this brother of the poor fella who bit the dust (his name was Nimrah) was fit to be tied with his old man for what he did to his sibling.
So Nimrah rounded up a handful of good men and beat a hasty retreat to join Omer.
It happened that Akish fathered more sons, and they sweet-talked the townsfolk, even though those folks promised to follow him into all sorts of mischief.
The folks with Akish were keen on makin' a buck, just like Akish was dead set on grabbin' power; so the boys of Akish started dolin’ out silver, and most of ‘em jumped ship, followin' the lure of wealth.
Then a brawl broke out between the sons of Akish and Akish himself, draggin’ on for years until the kingdom nearly wiped out everyone, ‘cept for a mere thirty souls and those who took off with Omer.
So, Omer got the rightful spot back in his old stompin’ grounds.
Now Omer was gettin' up there in years, but still had one last ride in him—he fathered Emer, an’ anointed him to take the throne next up.
Once he crowned Emer king, he spied peace sittin’ pretty ‘round the land for two whole years, then passed on after livin’ a long life filled with sorrow. Emer took over and followed in his pop's boots.
The Lord started to ease the curse off the land, and Emer’s kin thrived real good under his rule; over sixty-two years they became tough as nails, amassin' wealth like you wouldn't believe—
With all sorts of fruit, grains, fine threads, and all that glitters; gold, silver, and precious treasures.
And they had all kinds of critters too—oxen, cattle, sheep, pigs, goats, and a bunch of other animals fit for a feast.
They even had horses and donkeys, not to mention elephants, cureloms, and cumoms; all of which came in handy for folks, especially the elephants and them odd critters too.
And so the Lord poured his blessings on that fine land, choosin’ it above all others; and He told whoever claimed it better do it for Him, or they’d find themselves in a heap of trouble when they got too rotten; for the Lord said, “I’ll unleash the full force of my wrath on 'em.”
Emer made sure justice was served, raisin' many sons and daughters; and he had Coriantum, whom he anointed to rule after him.
Once he’d set Coriantum in charge, he lasted another four years, seein’ peace in the territory; and lo and behold, he caught sight of the Son of Righteousness, rejoiced and basked in the moment before he passed on in tranquility.
Coriantum stayed on the righteous trail, buildin' up mighty towns and doin’ right by his people all his days. He didn’t have any young'uns until he turned quite old.
Then, his wife passed on at the age of one hundred and two. In his olden years, Coriantum took a young girl for a wife, and had a bunch more sons and daughters; thus he lived to the ripe old age of a hundred and forty-two years.
He fathered Com, who took the reins next; Com held the crown for forty-nine years and had Heth along with other sons and daughters.
The folks spread out once again across the land, and sure enough, wickedness reared its head big time; Heth taken to schemin’ just like before, looking to off his own father.
As fate would have it, he wrestled the crown from his father, takin’ him down with his own blade, and took charge himself.
Prophets showed up again, shoutin’ for folks to repent and get ready for the Lord’s way, or else face a curse on the land; a mighty famine was a-comin’, and they’d be wiped out if they kept on sinning.
But the people turned a blind eye to the prophets’ words, tossin' ‘em out; some even tossed ‘em down into holes, lettin' 'em wither away. And all this happened at the say-so of the king, Heth.
Then it came to pass there was a dire shortage on the land, and townsfolk began to fade away mighty fast ‘cause they weren’t gettin’ a drop of rain.
Poisonous snakes crawled across the territory, takin’ many lives. The cattle began to bolt toward the south where them Nephites called Zarahemla.
Many perished along the way; but a few made a run for the land down south.
The Lord made them snakes quit followin' them, blockin' off the trails, so anyone foolish enough to try and squeeze through might just find themselves in a heap of trouble with them venomous snakes.
Then the people started scavengin’, feastin’ on the carcasses left by the wayside until they cleaned ‘em out. Realizing they were on the brink of extinction, they began to turn back to the Lord, seeking forgiveness for their wickedness.
And it came to pass, once they humbled themselves enough, the Lord sent rain to soak the earth; folks began to perk back up, and fruit started to bloom again in the northern reaches and all the lands nearby. The Lord showed His might by keepin' 'em safe from starvation.
