King Benjamin speaks to his people—He recalls how fair and spiritual his reign has been—He advises them to serve God—Those who rebel against God will experience great suffering.
After Mosiah did what his father asked him and announced it across the land, the people gathered together to go to the temple to hear King Benjamin speak to them.
There were so many people that they couldn’t even count them; they had grown greatly in the land.
They also brought the firstborn of their flocks to offer as sacrifices and burnt offerings as instructed by the law of Moses;
And to express gratitude to the Lord their God, who had brought them out of Jerusalem, saved them from their enemies, appointed righteous teachers, and established a just king who established peace in Zarahemla, teaching them to follow God's commandments so they could rejoice and feel love for God and others.
When they arrived at the temple, they set up their tents all around it, each family, including their wives, sons, daughters, and grandchildren, keeping their families separate from each other.
They positioned their tents with the doors facing the temple, so they could stay inside and listen to King Benjamin.
The crowd was so large that King Benjamin couldn’t address everyone inside the temple, so he had a tower built to ensure his people could hear him.
He began speaking from the tower, but many could not hear him because of the crowd. So, he had his words written down and distributed to those who could not hear him directly.
These are the words he spoke and had recorded: My friends, all of you who have gathered here today to listen to what I will say; I didn’t call you here just to waste time, but to truly pay attention, open your ears to hear, open your hearts to understand, and open your minds so that the mysteries of God can be revealed to you.
I didn’t call you here to make you fear me or to think that I am more than just a mortal man.
I am like you, facing all sorts of physical and mental weaknesses; yet, I have been chosen by you, consecrated by my father, and allowed by God to rule over you, and I have been protected by His extraordinary power, intending to serve you with all my strength.
I tell you that as I have served you all my days, I have not sought gold, silver, or any riches from you;
Nor have I allowed you to be imprisoned, or for any of you to enslave each other, or to commit murder, theft, or adultery; I have not permitted any wickedness and have taught you to keep God’s commandments so you could avoid harm—
Even I, myself, have worked with my hands to serve you and to prevent you from heavy taxation, ensuring that no burdens fell upon you—and you are all witnesses to these things today.
Yet, my friends, I do not mention these things to boast, nor do I wish to accuse you; I tell you this so that you know I can stand guilt-free before God today.
Understand this: I tell you that because I say I have dedicated my life to serving you, I don't want to boast; my service is ultimately to God.
I share this with you so that you may gain wisdom and understand that when you serve others, you are really serving God.
You have called me your king; if I, your king, work to serve you, shouldn’t you also work to serve one another?
And if I, your king, who has given my time to serve you and has also served God, deserve your thanks, how much more should you thank your Heavenly King!
I tell you, my friends, that if you were to give all the thanks and praise that you could possibly muster to the God who created and preserved you, who gives you joy, and allows you to live peacefully together—
I say, if you serve the God who created you and supports you daily, allowing you to live and act freely, and sustains you moment by moment, even if you served Him with all your soul, you would still be unprofitable servants.
And all that He asks of you is to keep His commandments; He has promised that if you follow His commandments, you will prosper in the land; He never goes back on His word; thus, if you keep His commandments, He blesses you and helps you succeed.
First, He created you and gave you life, for which you owe Him.
Second, He requires you to follow His commandments; if you do, He will immediately bless you; therefore, He has compensated you. You are still in debt to Him, now and forever; how can you have anything to boast about?
Now I ask you, can you claim anything about yourselves? I answer: No, you cannot even consider yourselves more significant than the dust of the earth, from which you were made; yet, it belongs to the one who created you.
And I, whom you call your king, am no better than you; I too am made of dust. You see that I am old and about to return to the earth.
So, as I mentioned that I have served you with a clear conscience before God, I have gathered you today to be found blameless, so that your blood does not come upon me when I will be judged by God concerning you.
I say to you that I have gathered you so I can free myself from any responsibility for your sins at this time when I am about to pass away; I want to leave in peace, so my spirit can join in praising a just God.
Furthermore, I have gathered you to let you know I can no longer be your teacher or your king;
Because I tremble with weakness while trying to speak to you; but the Lord supports me and has allowed me to speak, commanding me to inform you today that my son Mosiah is now your king and ruler.
Now, my friends, I wish for you to continue as you have been. As you have kept my commandments and those of my father, prospered, and been protected from your enemies, so if you keep the commands of my son, or those from God that he brings, you will also prosper, and your enemies will have no sway over you.
But, O my people, be careful that conflicts do not arise among you, and that you do not follow the evil spirit, as my father Mosiah warned.
For there is woe for anyone who chooses to obey that spirit; if they continue in their sins and die in them, they bring damnation upon themselves, receiving everlasting punishment for breaking God’s law against their own understanding.
I say to you that there are none among you, except for little children who have not yet learned, who do not know that you are eternally indebted to your Heavenly Father, to give Him everything you have and are; you have also been taught about the records that contain the prophecies from the holy prophets, even from when our father Lehi left Jerusalem;
And of all that has been spoken by our ancestors up until now. They spoke what the Lord commanded them, and therefore, their words are just and true.
Now, I tell you, my friends, that after you have learned all these things, if you choose to go against what has been taught and distance yourselves from the Spirit of the Lord, denying it a place in you to guide you in wisdom so you can be blessed and prospered—
I say to you, anyone who does this is openly rebelling against God; they choose to obey the evil spirit and become an enemy to all that is good; thus, the Lord has no place in them, for He does not dwell in unholy temples.
Therefore, if that person does not repent and dies as an enemy to God, divine justice awakens their soul to a vivid awareness of their guilt, causing them to shrink away from the Lord's presence, filled with guilt, pain, and suffering like a fire that never goes out.
And now I say to you that mercy does not apply to that person; thus, their final outcome is to endure continual torment.
O, all of you old and young, and you little children who can understand my words, I have spoken plainly so you can grasp my message; I urge you to remember the terrible situation of those who have fallen into sin.
Moreover, I want you to think about the blessed and joyful state of those who keep God's commandments. They are blessed in both temporal and spiritual matters; if they remain faithful to the end, they will be received into heaven, living with God in eternal happiness. O remember, remember that these things are true; for the Lord God has declared it.
