The Book of Jacob the Brother of Nephi
The words I preached to my kinfolk. I threw a real curveball at a feller tryin' to buck the doctrine of Christ. A few words 'bout the tale of the folks named Nephi.
Jacob and Joseph set out to convince folks to put their faith in Christ and stick to His commandments—Nephi passed on—Evil was runnin' rampant among the Nephites. 'Round 544–421 B.C.
Well now, let me tell ya, it was a whole fifty-five years since Lehi struck out from Jerusalem; so, Nephi handed me, Jacob, a mighty important job ‘bout them small plates, where this here stuff is carved in stone.
He told me, Jacob, to jot down a few things on those plates that I reckon to be the most valuable; to keep my hands off the history of this here Nephite bunch, unless it was just a brush.
He figured that the history of his people oughta be chiseled on his other plates, and that I oughta keep these plates safe and pass 'em down through the generations.
And if there were any preachin' that was holy, or revelations that were grand, or prophesies, I was to etch the main points onto these plates, and give 'em a good shake for Christ’s sake, and for the good of our folks.
‘Cause, by gum, through faith and a heap of worry, it had surely been laid out for us about what was gonna happen to our folks.
We also got a mess of revelations and the spirit of prophecy flowed like a river; so, we knew about Christ and the kingdom that was ‘bout to come.
So, we busted our tails among our folks, tryin' to nudge ‘em toward Christ, so they could savor the goodness of the Lord and find that peace, ‘cause we sure didn’t want Him to swear in His fury that they wouldn’t get in, just like the old days when the children of Israel were wanderin’ in the desert.
We pray to the good Lord that we could get all folks to quit their fussin' against God, to stir Him up, but that everyone would believe in Christ, and witness His death, and take up His cross and bear the shame of the wide world; so I, Jacob, take on this task to do what my brother Nephi said to do.
Now Nephi was gettin' on in years, and he could see the end was near; so, he set a man to be king and ruler over his folks, now, followin' the ways of kings.
The people loved Nephi mighty deep, ‘cause he was a great protector for ‘em, swingin' Laban's sword to keep 'em safe, and he worked day and night for their well-being—
So the folks were keen to keep his name alive in their hearts. And whoever took his spot was dubbed by the people as second Nephi, third Nephi, and so on, just like the kings; they called ‘em what they chose.
Well, wouldn’t ya know it, Nephi kicked the bucket.
Now, the folks who weren’t Lamanites were called Nephites; still, they had a whole heap of names—Jacobites, Josephites, Zoramites, Lamanites, Lemuelites, and Ishmaelites.
But me, Jacob, I ain't gonna bother with those names no more; I’m callin’ those who want to trash the Nephites as Lamanites, and those who’re pals with Nephi, I’ll just name ‘em Nephites or the people of Nephi, same as the kings did.
And it turned out that under the second king, the Nephites started hardenin' their hearts and indulgin' in some real shady business, kinda like old David wanted many wives and gals, same as his son Solomon.
Yep, they got themselves into huntin’ for gold and silver and got a bit puffed up with pride.
So I, Jacob, gave ‘em these words while I was at the temple after I got my message straight from the Lord.
‘Cause me, Jacob, and my brother Joseph had been set apart as priests and teachers for this here people by Nephi himself.
And we made sure to do our jobs right by the Lord, takin’ on the weight of their sins if we didn’t teach ‘em the good word of God with all our might; so, by workin’ hard, their blood wouldn’t be on our hands; otherwise, we wouldn’t be found clean come judgment day.
