Well now, listen up, folks, 'cause I got somethin' to say to all you clean-hearted souls. Keep your eyes steady on the Good Lord, and pray real hard with all you got; He’ll comfort you through tough times, stand up for ya, and bring justice on those out to get you.
Y’all who got pure hearts, lift yer heads high and take in the sweet words of God, feast on His love; if you keep your minds steady, you can have it forever.
But, oh mercy, woe betide them that ain't pure in heart, who’re dirty in the sight of God today; unless you turn your ways around, this here land’s cursed 'cause of you, and those Lamanites, while they may not be filthy like y’all, they've got their own curse that’ll rain down on you till you’re wiped out.
And reckon the time's a-comin’ real quick, that if ya don’t change your ways, they’ll be takin' over your land, and the Good Lord will lead the righteous away from your midst.
Just look at them Lamanites, your own kin, whom you disdain 'cause of their appearance and the curses laid upon 'em, they're more virtuous than you; they haven’t forgotten the Lord’s commandment given to our forefathers—that they should only have one wife, no concubines, and no whorin' around.
And now, they’re stickin’ to that commandment; ‘cause they do, the Good Lord won’t wipe ‘em out, but will show ‘em mercy; someday, they’ll be a blessed folk.
See, their husbands care for their wives, and their wives love their husbands; they got love for their kids too; any hatred or disbelief against you is 'cause of their folks' wrongdoings; so how much better are ya than them in the eyes of your Creator, huh?
Oh brethren, I worry that if you don't change your sinful ways, their skins might end up whiter than yours when all ya’ll stand before God’s throne together.
So here’s the command I’m givin’ you, it’s the Word of God, stop throwin' dirt on 'em ‘cause of the color of their skins; don't look down on ‘em for their dirtiness; instead, remember your own muck, and that theirs comes from their forebears.
Now think on your children, how you’ve hurt their hearts by the example you set; remember, your own dirt could lead them to ruin, and their wrongs might just pile up on your heads come judgment day.
Brothers, hear me out now; wake up the spirits within you; shake off that deathly sleep; free yourselves from hell’s grip so you don’t end up bein' angels for the devil, tossed into that fiery pit known as the second death.
And now, I, Jacob, shared a heap more with the folks of Nephi, warnin' them 'gainst whorin', lasciviousness, and all sorts of sin, tellin' 'em the dire results that come from those choices.
Even a smidgen of the goin's-on of this growing crowd can’t be penned down in these here plates; but a lot’s been scribbled on the larger ones, includin’ their battles, disputes, and the reigns of their kings.
These plates, they’re known as Jacob’s plates, and they were fashioned by the very hand of Nephi. And that’s all I’ve got to say for now.
