Well, all them prophets tipped their hats to the Father while hollerin’ Jesus’ name—Abraham’s act of sacrificin' Isaac showed just how God and His Only Begotten Son are tied up together—Folks oughta make peace with the Almighty through the Atonement—Them Jews are bound to turn their backs on the cornerstone.
Now listen here, it happened that I, Jacob, done a heap of preachin’ to my kinfolk, (and I can't scribble much 'cause it’s tough as nails to carve words onto plates) and we know that what we etch onto them plates has gotta stick around;
But anything we scribble on somethin’ other than plates is liable to get lost in the wind; still, we can put a few words on them plates that’ll give our young’uns and dear brothers a little insight about us or their forefathers—
Now, this is where we find our joy; we’re workin’ real hard to engrave these words on plates, hopin’ that our dear brethren and our young’uns will accept ‘em with grateful hearts, and look on ‘em to learn with gladness, not sorrow, or spite, about their first parents.
For this very reason, we’re spinnin’ tales so they know we had knowledge of Christ, and we held onto the hope of His glory way long before He showed up; and not just us, but all them holy prophets who came before us shared that same hope.
Well, they put their faith in Christ and worshiped the Father in His name, and we’re doin’ the same. And that’s why we stick to the law of Moses; it points our spirits to Him, and for that reason, it gets counted as righteousness for us—just like it did for Abraham when he obeyed God in the wilderness by offerin’ up his son Isaac, a picture of God and His Only Begotten Son.
So, we’re out there searchin’ the prophets, and we’ve got ourselves a pile of revelations and the spirit of prophecy; with all these witnesses, we’ve got hope, and our faith’s as steady as a rock, to the point we can command in the name of Jesus, and even the trees heed our calls, or the mountains, or the waves crashin’ on the shore.
Even so, the Lord God shows us our weaknesses so we know it’s by His grace, and His show of kindness to us folks, that we’re able to do these things.
Look yonder, the Lord’s works are mighty fine. How unfathomable are the depths of His mysteries; no man can rightly figure out all His ways. And none knows of His ways ‘lessen He reveals ‘em; so, brothers, don’t go dismissin’ the revelations of God.
For see here, by the power of His word, man walked on this here earth, and this earth was crafted by that same power of His word. So if God can just speak and the world comes to be, and speak to create man, well then, why wouldn’t He have the power to command the earth or the works of His hands on it, as He pleases?
So, brothers, don’t go tryin’ to advise the Lord; listen to what He’s sayin' instead. You know well enough He gives counsel in wisdom, justice, and heaps of mercy over all He’s made.
So, listen up, dear brothers, make your peace with Him through Christ’s atonement, His Only Begotten Son, and you might just get a taste of resurrection, thanks to the power of resurrection that’s in Christ, and be presented as the first fruit of Christ to God, full of faith, and having a good hope of glory in Him ‘fore He shows up in the flesh.
And now, dear ones, don’t be astonished I’m a-tellin’ you this; why shouldn’t we holler ‘bout Christ’s atonement and aim to know Him just as well as we want to understand resurrection and the world to come?
Now listen here, brethren, if anyone’s prophesyin’, let it be for the understanding of folks; ‘cause the Spirit tells no lies. So it’s speakin’ of things as they truly are, and what’s gonna come to pass; that’s why these truths are laid out plain for us, for the salvation of our souls. But don’t think we’re the only ones testifyin’; God passed these words down to prophets of old too.
But hear this, the Jews were a stubborn bunch; they turned their noses up at clear words, and they went and killed the prophets, seekin’ after things beyond their grasp. So ‘cause of their blindfold, which came from lookin’ beyond what they oughta, they’re bound to stumble; God’s taken away the plain talk from them, and handed ‘em a bunch of confusin' stuff ‘cause that’s what they wanted. And since that’s what they craved, God let it be so, so they might trip over it.
And now I, Jacob, am bein’ led by the Spirit to prophesy; I reckon by the stirrin’s of the Spirit in me, that from the Jews’ stumblin’, they’ll shun the very stone they oughta build upon for a sturdy foundation.
But mark my words, according to the good book, this stone’s fixin’ to be the great, the last, and the only sure foundation for the Jews to build upon.
And now, my cherished ones, how in tarnation is it that after givin' up the sure foundation, they can ever build on it, for it to be the very head of their corner?
So now, my dear brethren, I’m gonna unravel this mystery for ya; as long as I don’t get my britches in a twist and lose my grip in the Spirit, frettin’ too much ‘bout y’all.
