Well now, listen up, partners, y’all remember the words of that prophet Zenos he spoke to Israel, sayin’:
“Y’all better pay attention, house of Israel, and listen to what I gotta say as a prophet of the Lord.”
“For I reckon the Lord says, I’m gonna liken you, house of Israel, to a tame ol’ olive tree, which a fella took care of in his vineyard; it grew up nice, got old, and then started saggin’ under the weight.”
“And so it was that the boss of the vineyard rode out and saw his olive tree showin’ signs of wear; he said: I’ll trim it, dig around it, and take care of it, hopin’ it’ll send out some young and tender branches 'fore it goes belly up.”
“And sure enough, he pruned it, dug around it, and nursed it back to health 'cause he meant what he said.”
“After a spell, it started producing a few young, tender branches; but lo and behold, the main top was still on its last legs.”
“Then the vineyard boss saw it and told his hand: It breaks my heart to think I might lose this tree; so you go on and grab some branches from that wild olive tree, and bring 'em here to me; we’ll yank off those main branches that are startin’ to wither and toss 'em into the fire so they don’t become a bother around my vineyard.”
“And the Lord of the vineyard said, I’m gonna take away a good many of these young, tender branches and plant 'em wherever I see fit; and even if the root of this here tree goes bad, I can save the fruit for myself; so I’ll take these young and tender branches and plant 'em wherever I please.”
“Take those wild olive branches and graft 'em in where needed; and those I’ve plucked off, I’ll heave into the fire to keep 'em from makin’ a mess of my vineyard.”
“Then the Lord’s servant did just as he was told, graftin’ in those wild olive branches.”
“The Lord of the vineyard had it dug up, pruned, and nourished, tellin’ his servant: It pains me to think I could lose this tree; so I reckon I’ll make sure them roots don’t go bad, so as to keep 'em for myself, I did this thing.”
“So go on now; keep an eye on the tree, and take good care of it, just like I told ya.”
“And wherever I want, I’ll set the good fruit in the lowest parts of my vineyard; it don't matter to you where it is; I’m doin’ this to keep my natural branches safe and to stock up the fruit for myself when the harvest comes, 'cause it grieves me to think I might lose this tree and the fruit it bears.”
“Time rolled on as the Lord of the vineyard went and hid those natural branches of the tame olive tree in the depths of the vineyard, some over here, some over there, just as he pleased.”
“Eventually, a fair amount of time went by, and the Lord of the vineyard called to his servant: Come on now, let’s head down into the vineyard to do some work.”
“Then, both the Lord of the vineyard and the servant went down to toil in the vineyard. The servant said to his boss: Look here; but just look at this tree.”
“The Lord of the vineyard glanced over and saw that tree where the wild olive branches had been grafted; it carried on and started bearin’ fruit. He reckoned it looked mighty fine, and the fruit was just like the original.”
“And he told his servant: See there, those wild branches have soaked up the life-givin’ moisture from the roots, givin’ 'em strength; 'cause of that good root, them wild branches are givin’ sweet fruit. If we hadn’t grafted 'em in, this tree woulda dropped dead. And now, I got a whole heap of fruit from this tree to stash away for myself come harvest time.”
“Then the Lord of the vineyard told the servant: Let’s check the lower part of the vineyard and see if those natural branches of the tree have produced a bunch of good fruit too, so I can stash some of that away for my own self.”
“They headed down to where the boss had hidden the natural branches, and he said to the servant: Check these out; and he saw the first one had produced a whole lotta good fruit, and by golly, it looked real nice. He told the servant: Pick some of that fruit and stash it away for the harvest, ‘cause I’ve been nurturing it a spell, and it’s paid off with plenty of fruit.”
“The servant asked his master: How’d you come to plant this tree, or this branch? 'Cause this here’s the sorriest spot in your whole vineyard.”
“The Lord of the vineyard replied: Don’t go givin’ me advice; I knew it was a sorry spot; that’s why I told ya, I’ve taken care of it for quite a while, and look at all the fruit it’s brought.”
“Then the Lord of the vineyard spoke again to his servant: Look here; I’ve planted another branch of the tree too; you know this spot is worse than the last one. But just take a gander at that tree. I’ve nursed it right along, and it’s put out a heap of fruit; now gather it up and stack it away for harvest time so I can keep it for myself.”
“Then the Lord of the vineyard said to his servant again: Take a look here, I’ve got another branch that I’ve planted; see that I’ve nourished it too, and it’s brought forth fruit.”
“And he said unto the servant: Look here and check out this last one. I planted it in a good spot, and I’ve nurtured it a long time, and just part of it’s givin’ sweet fruit while the other part’s givin’ wild fruit; I’ve cared for this tree just like the others.”
“Then the Lord of the vineyard turned to the servant: Yank off the branches that ain’t producin' good fruit and toss 'em into the fire.”
“But the servant said: Let’s trim it, dig around it, and give it a little more time, hopin’ it might still bear some good fruit for you, so you can stash it away.”
“Then the Lord of the vineyard and his servant tended to all the fruit in the vineyard.”
“A good while later, the Lord of the vineyard said to his servant: Come on now, let's head back down to the vineyard and get to work once more. The time is closin’ in and the end is near; so I need to stock up the fruit for myself in the harvest time ahead.”
“Down they went into the vineyard; they came to the tree that had lost its natural branches and had wild ones grafted on; and there was a heap of different fruits cluttering that tree.”
“The Lord of the vineyard tasted the fruit, every kind as it came. And he said: We’ve been takin’ care of this tree for a long spell, and I’ve stacked up quite a bit of fruit for myself against harvest time.”
“But this time it’s producin’ a whole lotta fruit, and none of it’s any good. There's all sorts of rotten fruit, and it ain't doin’ me any good despite all our hard work; and it truly grieves me to think I might lose this tree.”
“The Lord of the vineyard then asked the servant: What can we do to the tree to save some good fruit for myself again?”
“The servant replied: Well, 'cause you’ve grafted in those wild olive branches, they’ve been givin’ life to the roots, keepin’ 'em alive and not perished; so you see they’re still holdin’ strong.”
“Then the Lord of the vineyard said to the servant: This tree ain’t benefitin’ me none, and neither do the roots as long as it keeps on producin’ bad fruit.”
“But I know them roots are good, and I’ve saved ‘em for my own purpose; and 'cause they’re so strong, they’ve been givin’ good fruit from the wild branches so far.”
“However, the wild branches are climbin’ over the roots and causin’ trouble; and 'cause the wild branches have taken over, they’re bearin’ nothing but rotten fruit; and since they’re producin’ so much bad fruit, you can see it’s startin’ to perish; and it won't be long ‘til it’s ripe for bein’ tossed into the fire unless we do somethin’ to save it.”
“So the Lord of the vineyard told his servant: Let’s go down to the lowest parts of the vineyard and see if the natural branches are also producin’ bad fruit.”
“They headed down to them lowly parts of the vineyard. And they found that the fruit of the natural branches had gone sour too; yessiree, the first one, the second, and the last; they all went bad.”
“The wild fruit of the last had even overrun that part of the tree that was givin’ good fruit, and now that branch is dried up and dead.”
“The Lord of the vineyard wept and said to the servant: What more could I have done for my vineyard?”
“You see, I knew that all the fruit of the vineyard, except these, had gone bad. And now those that once bore good fruit have turned rotten too; all the trees in my vineyard are no good except to be chopped down and tossed into the fire.”
“See this last one, whose branch is shriveled up? I planted it in a mighty fine spot of ground; that one was the best part of all my vineyard.”
“And you saw that I cut down the stuff that cluttered this part of the land to make room for this tree instead.”
“You saw a part of it produced good fruit, and another part bore wild fruit; and since I didn’t yank the branches and toss them into the fire, well, they’ve overwhelmed the good branch until it has withered away.”
“And now, even with all the care we’ve given to my vineyard, the trees have gone rotten and ain't producin’ any good fruit; I hoped to keep 'em and store up the fruit for myself come harvest time. But they’ve turned into a wild olive tree, and they ain’t worth a lick but to be chopped down and tossed into the fire; and it sure grieves me to see it.”
“But what more could I have done in my vineyard? Have I been slackin' in my work, not takin’ care of it? No sir, I nourished it, dug ‘round it, pruned it, and even fertilized it; I nearly stretched out my hand all day long, and the end’s drawin’ near. It pains me to think I’ll have to chop down all the trees in my vineyard and toss 'em into the fire to be burned. Who's the one that’s done corrupted my vineyard?”
“Then the servant spoke up and said: Could it be the height of your vineyard—have the branches overcome those good roots? 'Cause them branches are growin’ faster than the roots can keep up with, and takin’ strength unto themselves. I’ll say it plain, isn’t that the reason your vineyard’s trees have become corrupted?”
“The Lord of the vineyard replied to the servant: Well, let’s gather those trees, chop 'em down, and toss 'em into the fire, so they don’t clutter up the ground of my vineyard; for I’ve done all I can. What’s left for me to do in my vineyard?”
“But the servant said to the Lord of the vineyard: Let’s spare it a little longer.”
“And the Lord said: Right, I’ll hold off a little while longer, for it grieves me to think I might lose the trees in my vineyard.”
“So let’s take the branches from those I’ve planted in the lower parts of my vineyard and graft 'em back into the tree they came from; and let’s yank off the branches from the tree that bear the most bitter fruit and replace 'em with the natural branches.”
“I’m doing this so the tree don’t perish, and maybe I can keep those roots for my own purpose.”
“Look here, the roots of those natural branches I planted wherever I wanted are still alive; so to keep 'em for my own purpose, I’ll take some branches from this tree and graft 'em onto them. Sure enough, I’ll graft those branches of their mother tree on there, to preserve the roots for myself, and when they’re strong enough, they just might produce good fruit for me, and I can take pride in the yield from my vineyard.”
“And they took from that natural tree that had gone wild and grafted it onto them natural trees that had also turned wild.”
“They also took from the wild natural trees and grafted 'em back onto their mother tree.”
“The Lord of the vineyard instructed the servant: Don’t yank the wild branches from those trees, except for the ones that are the most bitter; and you’ll graft what I told you to.”
“We’ll nourish those trees in the vineyard again, clean up their branches; and we’ll pluck from the trees those branches that have ripened, and must perish, and toss 'em into the fire.”
“Now, I’m doin’ this so the roots might gather strength from their goodness; and 'cause of the change in the branches, the good may outdo the evil.”
“'Cause I’ve saved the natural branches and their roots, and I’ve grafted in the natural branches back into their mother tree, and preserved the roots of their mother tree, so maybe, just maybe, the trees in my vineyard will bear good fruit again; and I can find joy in the yield from my vineyard, and just possibly, I’ll rejoice greatly for having kept the roots and branches of the first fruits—”
“Now, gather up and call the workers, so we can get to laborin’ hard in the vineyard, makin’ way to bring forth the natural fruit again, which is good and the finest of all fruits.”
“Let’s roll up our sleeves and work our hardest this last time, for time’s a-tickin’, and this here’s the last stretch I’ll be doin’ to prune my vineyard.”
“Graft in the branches; start at the back so they can be the first ones, and the first can be last, and dig all around them trees, both old and young, the first and the last; and last and first, so every one can be nursed back to health for this final time.”
“So dig ‘round them, and prune 'em, and fertilize 'em one last time, since the end’s near. And if all these last grafted branches take root and start producin’ good fruit, then get ready for ‘em, so they can flourish.”
“And as they get to growin’, you should clear out them branches that bear bitter fruit, depending on how strong the good ones get; and don’t clear out too many rotten branches at once, so the roots don’t grow too strong for the graft. Otherwise, we might lose the trees in my vineyard.”
“It hurts me to think I might lose these trees; so you’ll clear away the bad as the good grows, teasin' the root and the top to be equal in strength, until the good chases away the bad, and the bad gets cut down and tossed into the fire so they don’t clutter up my vineyard; and that’s how I’ll clean out the bad from my vineyard.”
“And the branches from the natural tree, I’ll graft 'em back into their natural tree;”
“And the branches of that natural tree, I’ll graft into the natural branches of the tree; and that’s how I’ll bring ‘em all back together again, so they can produce the real deal.”
“And the bad ones, they’ll be tossed aside, even from all my vineyard; ‘cause let me tell you, only this once will I prune my vineyard.”
“And so it was that the Lord of the vineyard sent his servant, and the servant went out and followed the Lord’s orders, and gathered some more hands; and they were few in number.”
“And the Lord of the vineyard said to 'em: Come on and work in the vineyard with all your might. This is the last time I’ll take care of my vineyard before the end is here and the season’s comin’ on fast; and if you work hard alongside me, you’ll find joy in the fruit I’ll keep for myself when the time comes.”
“So the servants set to work, givin’ it their all, and the Lord of the vineyard also rolled up his sleeves with 'em; they did everything the Lord of the vineyard commanded.”
“And soon enough, the natural fruit was comin' back in the vineyard; those natural branches were growin’ tall and healthy; meanwhile, the wild branches were bein’ pulled off and tossed aside; and they kept the roots and the top evenly matched up, accordn’ to their strength.”
“And so they worked hard, followin’ the commands of the Lord of the vineyard, until all the bad fruit was cleared out of the vineyard, and the Lord had preserved the trees so they bore good fruit again; they became like one body; the fruits were the same; and the Lord of the vineyard had saved the natural fruit, which was the most treasured to him from the get-go.”
“And it came to pass that when the Lord of the vineyard saw that his fruit was good, and his vineyard no longer corrupted, he called his servants and said: Look here, for this final go-round we’ve tended my vineyard; and you see that I’ve done what I wanted; and I’ve kept my natural fruit, which is good, just like it was from the start. And blessed are you, for your hard work alongside me in my vineyard, and for keepin’ my commandments, and for bringin’ back my natural fruit, that my vineyard is no longer corrupted, and the bad’s been skedaddled; behold, y’all shall rejoice with me over the fruit of my vineyard.”
“'Cause I plan to save up a heap of the fruit from my vineyard for myself against the harvest season, which is comin’ right up; and for the last time, I’ve taken care of my vineyard, pruned it, dug around it, and fed it; and I’ll be stashin’ away the fruit for a long spell, just like I’ve said.”
“And when that time comes for evil fruit to hit my vineyard again, I’ll have the good and the bad gathered up; and the good I’ll save for myself, and the bad I’ll toss aside to its own place. Then comes the season and the end; and I’ll see to it that my vineyard gets burned with fire.”
