Well now, listen up, folks, 'cause I got somethin' to lay down. As I told ya ’fore, I’m fixin’ to share a prophecy—that the words of that prophet Zenos ‘bout the house of Israel, where he compared ‘em to a tame olive tree, they’re bound to happen, no doubt.
And when the Good Lord rolls up His sleeves for the second time to round up His people, that's gonna be the day, reckon it might be the last day, that His trusty hands will be out there in full swing, takin’ care of the vineyard; and right after that, things are gonna wrap up real quick.
Ain’t it a fine thing for them folks who’ve toiled hard in that vineyard? And woe betide them who get tossed out on their ear! The whole dang world’s gonna be set ablaze.
And bless our merciful God, ‘cause He’s keepin’ an eye on the house of Israel, roots and all; He’s stretchin’ out His hands to ‘em day in and day out; they sure are a stubborn and loud-mouthed bunch, but any soul who don’t harden their heart's gonna find salvation in God’s kingdom.
So, good brothers and sisters, I’m askin’ ya, with all seriousness, to turn ‘round, and come with a heart full of purpose, hold tight to God like He’s holdin’ tight to ya. And while His merciful arm is wide open in the sunshine, don’t you go hardenin’ your hearts.
Yup, right here and now, if you hear His call, don’t you go hardenin’ your hearts; ‘cause what in tarnation’s the point of dyin’?
‘Cause seein’ as you’ve been fed by the good word of God all day long, what good is it if you go and bear bad fruit, just to be chopped down and tossed into the fire?
So, are ya gonna turn your back on these words? Are ya gonna ignore the words of the prophets? And brush off all the talk that’s been said ‘bout Christ, after so many have had their say? And deny the good news of Christ, and the might of God, and the gift of the Holy Ghost, and snuff out the Holy Spirit, and laugh at the grand plan of redemption that’s been laid out for ya?
Don’t ya realize that if you keep this up, the power of redemption and resurrection, which is in Christ, is gonna leave ya standin’ before God’s judgment with your face all red with shame and heavy with guilt?
And remember, justice is a tough cookie; it can’t be ignored. You’ll have to pay the price by bein’ cast into that lake of fire and brimstone, where the flames never die down and the smoke rises up for all eternity, that lake of fire is a never-endin’ torment.
So, my dear brothers and sisters, turn around, and head through that narrow gate, stay on the path that’s tight, and keep goin’ till you snag that eternal life.
Now, don’t be simple; what more can I say?
In the end, I’ll take my leave, until we meet again at the sweet judgment of God, which sure strikes fear in the hearts of the wicked. Amen.
