Well now, lemme tell ya 'bout this ol' tale from Mormon's wrk.
So I’m sittin’ here, Mormon, fixin’ to hand over this here record I been workin’ on to my boy Moroni. I reckon I’ve seen just ‘bout all the wreckin’ of my people, them Nephites.
Now, it’s been hundreds of years since Christ came on down, and I’m passin’ these records over to my son; I can’t help but think he’ll see the complete downfall of our folks. But I’m hopin’ and prayin’ he’ll make it through, so he can write a bit ‘bout us and a bit ‘bout Christ, maybe one day it’ll do ‘em some good.
Now, let me talk a bit ‘bout what I’ve been scribblin’; after I summed up them plates from Nephi, all the way to King Benjamin’s time that Amaleki yapped about, I went diggin’ through the records I had, and I stumbled upon these plates that held a few stories from the prophets, startin’ with Jacob and goin’ right on to King Benjamin’s reign, plus a heap of Nephi’s words.
And I gotta say, what’s on them plates tickles my fancy ‘cause of the prophecies ‘bout Christ comin’; my folks knew many of ‘em came true; yeah, I know that whatever was prophesied ‘bout us up to today has happened, and whatever’s supposed to come after this day is bound to happen too—
So, I picked out these bits to wrap up my record on ‘em, and I’ll pull the rest of my story from Nephi’s plates; can’t hardly jot down even a hundredth of what my folks have been through.
But listen here, I’m gonna grab these plates filled with those prophecies and revelations, and toss ‘em in with the rest of my record ‘cause they mean a whole lot to me; and I reckon they’ll mean just as much to my kin.
I’m doin’ this for a mighty good reason; the Spirit of the Lord’s been whisperin’ to me, guidin’ me along. And I don’t know everything, mind ya, but the Lord does, and He’s the one workin’ in me to get things done His way.
And my prayer to God is for my kin, hopin’ they’ll find their way back to knowin’ Him again, yeah, and gettin’ to know Christ’s redemption; I want ‘em to be a happy folks again.
Now I’m gonna finish up my record takin’ from Nephi’s plates, and I’m doin’ it with the understanding God’s granted me.
So it happened that after Amaleki handed over them plates to King Benjamin, he went and put ‘em with the others which had been passed down from king to king, all the way through to King Benjamin’s day.
And they got passed down from King Benjamin, generation after generation, till they landed right in my hands. And let me tell ya, I’m prayin’ to God they stay safe from here on out. I know they will ‘cause there’s mighty important stuff written on ‘em, outta which my people and theirs will be judged come the final day, all based on God’s word that’s been put down.
And now, ‘bout that King Benjamin—he had himself a bit of fuss among his folks.
And it sure did come to pass that the Lamanites marched on down from Nephi’s land to take on his people. But lemme tell ya, King Benjamin rallied his armies and stood his ground; he fought like a true warrior, brandishin’ Laban’s sword.
And with the Lord’s strength, they went up against their foes, puttin’ down a whole heap of them Lamanites. And it sure enough came to pass they fought ‘til they’d driven them clean outta all the lands they called their own.
And after there was some false Christs runnin’ ‘round, and they got their mouths shut up, gettin’ punished for their misdeeds;
And after there were false prophets, preachin’ and teachin’ all sorts of nonsense among the people, and all them folks gettin’ punished just like the others; after all the squabblin’ and bickerin’ that went over to the Lamanites, it came to be that King Benjamin, with help from them holy prophets hangin’ around his folks—
‘Cause see here, King Benjamin was a right good man, reignin’ over his people with justice; and there was a whole passel of holy men in the land who spoke God’s word with power and authority; they sure did use a bit of sharpness ‘cause them folks had such hard heads—
So, with their help, King Benjamin, givin’ it all he had, body and soul, along with them prophets, brought back peace to the land once again.
