It all happened that after I, Nephi, finished givin’ my folks some lessons, our old man, Lehi, had some talkin’ to do too, remindin’ ‘em about all the great things the Lord done for us when he fetched us outta Jerusalem.
He told ‘em ‘bout their rebellions on the high seas and how the good Lord spared their hides from bein’ swallowed up by the ocean.
He also gabbed about the promised land we now had—how merciful the Lord was in warnin’ us to skedaddle outta Jerusalem.
He said, “Look here, I had a vision, and it’s plain as day that Jerusalem’s been taken down; if we’d stayed put, we’d have been goners too.”
“But,” he carried on, “despite our troubles, we scored ourselves a real good piece of land, a place that’s better than all the others; a piece of land that the Lord God promised me would belong to my kin. Yup, the Lord’s promised this land to me and my young’uns forever, along with all those who’re led outta other places by the Lord’s own hand.”
So, I, Lehi, prophesy by the spirit movin’ in me, that no one will step foot on this land unless the Lord brings ‘em here.
This land is set apart for folks He brings over. If they’ll serve Him and keep the rules He set, it’ll be a land of freedom for ‘em; they won’t ever get shackled unless it’s on account of their own misdeeds; for if sin runs rampant, this land’ll be cursed because of ‘em, but for the righteous, it’ll be blessed for all time.
And just so you know, it’s wise that this land stays hidden from other nations; ‘cause there’s a heap of nations that would storm in and there wouldn’t be no place left to call home.
Thus, I, Lehi, have received a promise: if those the Lord brings outta Jerusalem keep His commandments, they’ll thrive on this here land; and they’ll be kept away from other nations, so they can have this land to themselves. And if they follow the Lord’s commands, they’ll be blessed and there’ll be no one to bother them or snatch away their inheritance; they’ll be safe here forever.
But listen close, when the time comes that they grow weak in faith, after seein’ so many blessings from the Lord—knowin’ how He made the earth and all folks, seein’ the wondrous works from the start of it all; havin’ the power to do anything with faith; holdin’ all the commandments from the get-go, and bein’ led by His great goodness to this fine land—if they turn their backs on the Holy One of Israel, the true Messiah, their Redeemer and God, then mark my words, justice will come down heavy on ‘em.
Yup, He’ll bring other nations to ‘em, givin’ ‘em strength, and He’ll take their land right out from under ‘em, scatterin’ ‘em and makin’ ‘em suffer.
As one generation passes to the next, there’ll be bloodshed and great calamities among ‘em; so, my boys, I hope you take heed; I hope you listen to what I’ve got to say.
Oh, if only you’d shake off that deep slumber, the kind that binds folks up tight in chains and drags ‘em down to the depths of misery.
Wake up! Rise up from that dust and heed the words of a father shakin’ in his boots, whose time to rest in the cold ground’s comin', from where no one returns; just a few more days, and I’ll be walkin’ the path of all mankind.
But, look here, the Lord saved my soul from the pit; I’ve seen His glory, and I’m wrapped up tight in His everlasting love.
I sure hope you all remember to follow the rules and judgments of the Lord; this has been the worry of my heart since the start.
My heart's been heavy with sorrow now and again, ‘cause I worried that ‘cause of your hard hearts, the Lord might come down hard on ya, cuttin’ you off and destroyin’ you for good;
Or, that a curse might fall upon you for many generations; and you’d be attacked by swords, starvin’ and hated, led ‘round by the will and chains of the devil.
Oh, my sons, I hope none of this happens to you, but that you find favor as the Lord’s chosen folks. But in the end, it’s the Lord’s will that’ll get done; His ways are righteous forever.
He’s said, "As long as you stick to my rules, you’ll do well here; but if you don’t, you’ll be cut off from my presence.” 
Now, so my heart can be full of joy ‘bout you, and I can leave this world feelin’ glad on account of ya, and not drown in sorrow as I head to the grave, rise up from the dust, my sons, and be strong, united in heart and mind, so you won’t fall into bondage;
So you won’t be cursed with a grievous curse; and also, so you don’t bring the anger of a just God down upon you, which could lead to the destruction of your very souls.
Wake up, my sons; put on the armor of righteousness. Shake off them chains that hold you down, step out of the shadows, and rise from the dust.
Don’t be rebelling no more against your brother, who’s had a glorious vision and kept the commandments since we left Jerusalem; who’s been God’s hand in bringin’ us to this promised land; ‘cause without him, we would’ve starved in the wild; but still, you’ve tried to take his life; he’s suffered plenty because of you.
And I’m mighty scared and tremblin’ ‘cause of you, fearin’ he’ll have to endure more trouble; ‘cause you’ve accused him of wantin’ power over you; but I know he ain’t after power, he’s after God’s glory and your own good.
And you’ve grumbled ‘cause he’s been direct with ya. You say he’s sharp; you claim he’s angry with you; but that sharpness was just the power of God’s word in him; and that anger you see was merely the truth of God, which he couldn’t hold back, callin’ you out on your wrongdoings.
And it’s gotta be the power of God’s with him, givin’ him the command to make you follow. But it ain’t him, it’s the Spirit of the Lord that’s in him, givin’ him the words that he couldn’t keep from spillin’.
And now my boy, Laman, and Lemuel and Sam, and also my sons who’re young’uns of Ishmael, listen up: if you’ll heed what Nephi says, you won’t meet your end. And if you do listen, I’ll leave you my first blessing.
But if you don’t listen, I’ll take that blessing back, and it’ll go to him.
And now, Zoram, I have words for you: You’re Laban’s servant, but you’ve been brought out from the land of Jerusalem, and I know you’re a true friend to my boy, Nephi, for keeps.
So ‘cause you’ve been true, your kin will be blessed along with his kin, livin’ well on this land; and naught but iniquity among ‘em will harm or hinder their prosperity on this land forever.
So if you keep the Lord's commandments, this here land’s been consecrated for the safety of your kin along with my son’s kin.
