Well now, I, Jacob, am fixin' to have a word with ya again, my dear kin, 'bout this mighty fine branch I mentioned.
Y’see, the promises we’ve wrangled up are for us in the flesh; it’s like I been shown that plenty of our young'uns will kick the bucket 'cause they ain’t got faith. But don't fret none, God’s gonna show mercy to a heap of ‘em, and our kids will come back around to learn the real truth ‘bout their Redeemer.
So, as I got to telling ya, it’s downright necessary for Christ—an angel told me that’s what He’d be called—to come rollin’ in among the Jews, who are the rowdiest folks out there; and they’ll end up crucifyin’ Him—‘cause that’s how our God set it to be, and ain't nobody else on this here earth gonna crucify their God.
If mighty works were done for other folks, they’d surely repent and recognize Him as their God.
But those priests and all their bad deeds over in Jerusalem will just harden their hearts and go after Him, leading to His crucifixion.
So ‘cause of their wickedness, some big calamities like destruction, famines, sickness, and bloodshed are fixin’ to rain down on ‘em; and those who don’t get wiped out will be scattered far and wide.
But listen good, says the Lord God: When the day comes that they start puttin’ their faith in me and realize I’m Christ, then I’ve made a promise to their forebears that they’ll be brought back in the flesh on this earth, to their rightful land.
And it’s sure to happen that they’ll be gathered up from their long wanderin’, from all the sea’s shores, and from the corners of the earth; and them Gentile nations will be mighty pleasing in my sight, says God, as they help lead ‘em back to their inheritance.
Yep, the Gentile kings are gonna be like nurturing fathers to ‘em, and their queens will be like nursing mothers; so the promises from the Lord are huge for the Gentiles, 'cause He said so, and who’s gonna argue with that?
But listen up, says God, this land is gonna be your inheritance, and the Gentiles are gonna be blessed right here.
And this here spot will be a land of freedom for the Gentiles, with no kings makin’ demands here.
And I’ll be shorin’ up this land against all the other nations.
And anyone tryin’ to fight against Zion’s gonna meet their end, says God.
For anyone who goes and tries to crown a king against me will find their doom, 'cause I, the Lord, the ruler of the skies, will be their king, and I’ll shine my light on ‘em forever, for whoever listens to my words.
So, ‘cause of that, to keep my promises to the children of men while they’re still alive, I’ve got to take down the sneaky evildoers who work in darkness, do murders, and carry out all kinds of wickedness.
So anyone who stands against Zion, whether they be Jew or Gentile, slave or free, man or woman, will face demise; ‘cause they’re part of the scourge of the earth; for those who ain’t with me are against me, says our God.
For I’ll be makin’ good on the promises I’ve given to the children of men, doin’ for ‘em while they’re alive—
So, my dear kin, here’s what God says: I’ll make your folks suffer at the hands of the Gentiles; but I’ll soften their hearts, so they act like fathers to ‘em; thus, the Gentiles will be blessed and counted among the house of Israel.
So I’ll set apart this land for your folks, and those who are counted among your kin, forever, as their rightful inheritance; ‘cause it’s a choice piece of land, says God to me, better than all others, and I want everyone livin’ here to worship me, says God.
And now, my dear kin, seein' as our merciful God has granted us such grand knowledge about these matters, let’s not forget Him, and shake off our sins, and keep our chins up, for we ain’t been cast aside; even though we’ve been pushed out of our rightful land, we’ve been led to better pastures, for the Lord has made the sea our road, and we’re settlin' on an isle in the ocean.
But there sure are great promises from the Lord for those on the isles of the sea; so since we mention isles, there's gotta be more than just this one, and they’ve got our kin livin’ there too.
‘Cause look here, the Lord God has led folks away from the house of Israel time and time again, doin’ what He pleases. And now pay heed, the Lord ain’t forgotten those who've been cut off, so He remembers us too.
So, lift up your spirits, and remember that you’re free to make your own choices—to take the path to everlasting death or the road to eternal life.
Therefore, my dear kin, make peace with the will of God, not with the devil and temptations of the flesh; and remember, once you make peace with God, it’s only through His grace that you’ll find salvation.
So may God pull you up from the grave by the power of the resurrection, and also save you from eternal death through the power of the atonement, that you might be welcomed into the eternal kingdom of God, where you can praise Him forever through His divine grace. Amen.
