The word that Isaiah, the son of Amoz, laid eyes on regarding Judah and Jerusalem:
And it’ll be a sight to see in the final days, when the Lord’s big ol’ ranch house gets set up on the top of the hills, standing tall above all the smaller ones, and folks from all over will be a-headin’ that way.
And many folks’ll say, “Come on, let’s ride up to the mountain of the Lord, to the house of the God of Jacob; He’ll school us on His ways, and we’ll be a-gallopin’ down His trails; for from Zion, the law will ride out, and the word of the Lord will echo from Jerusalem.
He’ll judge between the nations and give a good talking to many folks: and they’ll swap their swords for plowshares and their spears for pruning hooks—nation won’t raise a sword against another, nor will they learn the ways of war no more.
O house of Jacob, y’all come on over and let’s walk in the light of the Lord; that’s right, come on, ‘cause y’all done gone wayward, each and every one to their own wicked ways.
So, Lord, You’ve turned Your back on Your people, the house of Jacob, ‘cause they’ve filled themselves from the east, listenin’ to fortune tellers like them Philistines, and got cozy with the kids of strangers.
Their land’s full of silver and gold, and there ain't no end to their stash; their land’s also packed with horses, and they’ve got a never-ending supply of chariots.
Their land is crawling with idols; they’re worshippin’ what their own hands have made, that which their own fingers crafted.
And the lowly feller don’t bow down, and the highfalutin don’t humble themselves, so don’t go forgivin’ ‘em.
O you wicked folks, skedaddle to the mountains and hide in the dirt, ‘cause the fear of the Lord and the glory of His might is gonna knock you flat.
And it'll come to pass that the high and mighty looks of man will be humbled, and the pride of men will be brought low, and the Lord alone will be sittin’ high in that day.
For the day of the Lord of Hosts ain’t far off, comin’ for all nations, yep, for everyone; even the proud and mighty, and everyone who’s lifted high, and they’ll come a-tumblin’ down.
Yup, and the day of the Lord will roll in on all them tall cedars of Lebanon, ‘cause they’re standin’ high and mighty; and all them oaks of Bashan too;
And on every high mountain, and every hill, and all them nations thinkin’ they’re above it, and every last one of ‘em folks;
And on every tall tower, and every fortified wall;
And on all the ships at sea, and those fancy ships from Tarshish, and all the lovely pictures folks cherish.
And the pride of man will get a good dose of humility, and the haughtiness of men will be laid low; and the Lord alone will be sittin’ glorious in that day.
And the idols will be thrown out like yesterday’s trash.
They’ll run for the holes in the rocks and the caves of the earth, ‘cause the fear of the Lord will hit ‘em like a freight train, and the glory of His majesty’ll make ‘em shudder, when He rises up to shake the earth like it’s never been shook before.
On that day, a man will toss his silver idols and gold idols he made for himself to worship, right down to the moles and bats;
To hide in the cracks of the rocks, and up in the jagged cliffs, for the fear of the Lord will come upon ‘em and the majesty of His glory will shake ‘em up, when He arises to make the earth tremble.
Stop puttin’ your faith in man, whose breath is just a puff in his nostrils; what’s he really worth?
