Yonder, the Lord, the Chief of the Heavens, is fixin’ to take away from Jerusalem and Judah all their support and sustenance, the bread and water they rely on—
The strong fellas, the warriors, the judges, and the prophets, the wise old-timers—
The captains of fifty, the respected folk, the advisors, the crafty tradesmen, and the smooth talkers.
And I’ll hand over the reins to young’uns, and little tykes will be in charge.
Folks'll be rough on each other, and neighbors won’t be friendly; the kids will strut proud-like against the elders, and the lowly will show contempt for the esteemed.
When a man grabs his brother from the same kin, sayin’, “You got clothes, so why don’t you lead us and keep this mess from us?”
In that day, he’ll swear up and down, “I ain’t gonna fix nothin’; my place is bare as a rattlesnake den; don’t make me your leader!”
For Jerusalem’s all but done for, and Judah’s taken a tumble, ‘cause their words and actions’ve gone against the Lord, pokin’ at the eyes of His glory.
The look on their faces tells tales against ‘em, revealing their sins like Sodom, and they can’t cover it up. Woe to their souls, for they’ve brought trouble upon themselves!
Tell the good folks it’s all right with ‘em; they’re gonna reap the rewards of their good deeds.
Woe to the wicked, for they’re bound to meet their end; the fruit of their hands will come back to bite ‘em!
And my people, it’s youngsters runnin’ the show, and women are callin’ the shots. Oh, my people, those in charge are leadin’ ya on the wrong trail and messin’ up your paths.
The Lord’s gettin' up to argue and judge the folks.
The Lord will have a reckoning with the old-timers and their leaders; ‘cause you’ve gobbled up the vineyards and taken from the poor in your homes.
What’s the meaning of this? You’re beatin’ my people to a pulp and grindin’ the faces of the needy, says the Lord God of Hosts.
Also, the Lord says: ‘Cause the daughters of Zion are full of themselves, struttin’ around with their necks high and their eyes wanderin’, prancin’ like they own the place and makin’ noise with their feet—
So the Lord’s gonna lay a scab on the crowns of the heads of the daughters of Zion, and He’ll show off what they’re tryin’ to hide.
In that day, the Lord will take away their finery, that jingle-jangle of their ornaments, the fancy headpieces, and the round bits like the moon;
The chains, the bracelets, and the wraps;
The bonnets, leg adornments, headbands, tablets, and ear jewels;
The rings, and nose trinkets;
The fancy clothes, mantles, wimples, and curling pins;
The mirrors, the fine linens, hoods, and veils.
And it’ll come to pass, instead of sweet scents, it’ll be a stench; instead of a nice belt, there’ll be a tear; instead of well-done hair, bald-headedness; and instead of fancy garb, a wearin’ of sackcloth; a burnin’ in place of beauty.
Your men will bite the dust in battle, and your mighty ones will fall in war.
And her gates’ll wail and mourn; she’ll be left desolate, sittin’ down low on the ground.
