The Good Lord's field's gonna go to seed, and His folks will be scattered far and wide—Trouble will rain down on 'em like a storm in their wayward and lost state—But the Good Lord's gonna raise up a sign and gather His people back—Just take a gander at Isaiah 5. We're talkin' 'round the years 559 to 545 B.C.
Well now, I reckon I’ll sing a tune to my best friend about his special garden. My best buddy's got a vineyard up on a mighty fine hill.
He put up a fence, cleared out the rocks, planted the pick of the vines, built a tower right in the middle, and even made a wine-press there; he hoped it’d grow sweet grapes, but it turned out wild grapes instead.
Now listen here, you folks in Jerusalem and men of Judah, help me out and judge between me and my vineyard.
What more could I have done to my vineyard that I ain't already done? Why, when I expected to see sweet grapes, I just got wild ones.
Now listen up, I’ll tell ya what I'm gonna do to my vineyard—I’m takin’ down the fence, and it’ll get gobbled up; I’ll smash down the wall, and it’ll be trampled underfoot;
I'll let it go to ruin; it won’t get pruned or tended, and instead briers and thorns’ll come up; I’ll even tell the clouds to hold off on the rain for it.
For the Lord of Hosts’s vineyard is the house of Israel, and the folks of Judah are His prized plant; He looked for justice, but instead found oppression; for right-livin’, but behold, there’s just a cry.
Woe to 'em that build house upon house, till there’s no room left, just so they can be all alone out in the middle of nowhere!
In my ear, the Lord of Hosts said, many houses shall be left desolate, and grand ol’ cities will go empty as a tumbleweed.
You betcha, ten acres of vineyard’ll hardly yield a bath, and the seed of a homer’ll barely turn out an ephah.
Woe to 'em that rise up at dawn just to chase after strong drink, and keep at it till sundown, their wine settin’ 'em ablaze!
They’ve got their harps, fiddles, tambourines, and pipes at their shindigs; but they're blind to the work of the Lord, not payin' heed to what His hands are doin'.
That’s why my people are led off into captivity, ‘cause they don’t have the wisdom; their respected men are starvin’, and their crowd’s all dried up from thirst.
So, the fiery pit's opened wide, ready to swallow ‘em whole; their glory, their throngs, their fancy ways, and the ones celebratin' will all tumble right in.
Yup, the lowly will be brought down, the mighty will find themselves humbled, and the proud folks’ll bow their heads low.
But the Lord of Hosts’s gonna be high and mighty in judgment, and the Holy God'll be honored in righteousness.
Then the little lambs will graze just like they oughta, and strangers will feast on the scraps of the rich folks.
Woe to 'em that drag sin around like it’s a lasso, and haul it off like it’s hitched to a wagon!
They’re yellin’, “Let Him hurry up, let’s see His work rollin’ in; let’s call on the Holy One of Israel to come close so we can get a glimpse of what's goin’ on.”
Woe to 'em that call the bad good, and the good bad, that swap darkness for light, and light for darkness, swap bitterness for sweetness, and sweetness for bitterness!
Woe to the wise in their own eyes, and those who think they’re all that!
Woe to the fellas who drink wine like it's water, and the strong men who mix up hard drink;
They justify the wrongdoer for a pretty penny, and take away the right actions from the righteous!
So just like a fire gobbling up the stubble, and flames burnin’ through the chaff, their roots will rot away, and the flowers’ll blow away like dust, ‘cause they’ve tossed aside the law of the Lord of Hosts, and turned their backs on the words of the Holy One of Israel.
That’s why the Lord’s anger’s been stirred up against His people, and He’s stretched out His hand against 'em, givin' 'em a whack; the hills trembled, and their bodies lay all over the streets. Even still, His anger ain't cooled, and His hand's reachin' out still.
And He'll raise a banner to the far-flung nations, and hiss at 'em from the ends of the earth; and behold, they’ll come rushin’ in, none gonna be weary or stumble in their path.
None will slumber or sleep; not a bit of their gear’s gonna be loosened, nor a shoelace gonna break;
Their arrows will be sharp, their bows drawn tight, their horses’ hooves like hard rock, and their wheels will spin like a whirlwind, their roaring like a lion's growl.
They’ll roar like young lions; oh yes, they’ll roar, grabbin' hold of their prey, carryin' 'em off safe, and none will be able to rescue.
And come that day, they’ll roar against 'em like the sea's thunder; and if they peek at the land, they’ll see darkness and sorrow, and the heavens will be dimmed.
