Well now, during the days of Ahaz, son of Jotham, who was the king of Judah, those scoundrels Rezin, king of Syria, and Pekah, son of Remaliah, king of Israel, rode on up to Jerusalem lookin' for a fight, but they couldn’t put a lick on it.
Word got back to the house of David sayin': “Syria's teamed up with Ephraim.” This rattled Ahaz’s heart, and the folks around him felt as uneasy as trees tremblin’ in a storm.
Then the Lord told Isaiah: “You and your boy Shearjashub go meet up with Ahaz down at the end of the water channel by the big ol’ pool on the road out to the fuller’s field.”
And give him a message: “You keep your cool and don’t be scared, don’t let your heart go weak over them two smoldering sticks, what’s got Rezin and Syria all riled up, and that son of Remaliah.”
‘Cause Syria, Ephraim, and the son of Remaliah are hatching a wicked plan against you, sayin’:
“Let’s ride up against Judah and rattle ‘em good, break through their defenses, and set ourselves a king right smack in the middle, you know, that son of Tabeal.”
But the Lord God says: “That plan ain’t gonna hold water, nor will it come to pass.”
For the head honcho of Syria is Damascus, and Rezin’s sittin’ at the top of that pile; in just sixty-five years, Ephraim's gonna get taken down a peg and won’t be a people no more.
And Ephraim’s head is in Samaria, and Samaria’s led by the son of Remaliah. If you don’t hold tight to your faith, you sure won’t be standin’ tall.
But the Lord spoke again to Ahaz, sayin’:
“Ask for a sign from the Lord your God; you can ask deep down in the ground or way up in the skies.”
Ahaz said: “I ain't askin’ nothin’, nor am I gonna challenge the Lord.”
Then the Lord replied: “Listen here, house of David; it's one thing to tire out folks, but you think you can wear out my God too?”
So, the Lord himself is gonna give you a sign—Look here, a virgin's gonna have a baby, and she’ll call him Immanuel.
He’ll be munchin' on butter and honey, learnin’ to steer clear of what’s bad and pick what’s good.
Before that little one knows to choose right from wrong, the land you can’t stand will be abandoned by both her kings.
The Lord’s gonna bring upon you, your folks, and your folks’ folks, a time like none seen since Ephraim left Judah, led away by the king of Assyria.
And on that day, the Lord’s gonna whistle for the fly that’s buzzing down in Egypt and for the bee that’s buzzing ‘round Assyria.
And they’ll swarm in and settle down in the empty valleys, and hide in the rock holes, and rest on all the prickly thorns and bushes.
On that day, the Lord’s gonna give a shave with a hired razor from beyond the river, by the king of Assyria, taking off not just the head and neck hair, but even the beard.
And on that day, a fella’s gonna tend to a young calf and two sheep;
And when they start givin’ milk in heaps, he’ll be eating butter; ‘cause butter and honey is what’s left for them that still be around in the land.
On that day, every patch where there used to be a thousand vines worth a thousand silver coins, well it’ll turn into briars and thorns.
With arrows and bows, folks will come to that place, ‘cause the whole land will turn into one big mess of thorns and briars.
And all those hills that folks dig into with mattocks, won’t have to worry no more ‘bout briars and thorns; they’ll just be for sending out oxen and lettin’ the little critters stomp around.
