Christ will be a rock that folks trip over and a stone that makes 'em mad—Don’t go seekin' after no sorcerers—Stick to the law and the testimony for guidance—Look at Isaiah 8. 'Bout 559–545 B.C.
Well, the Good Lord told me: Grab yerself a big ol' scroll and write on it with a fella’s pen, 'bout Maher-shalal-hash-baz.
So, I wrangled up some trusty witnesses to jot it all down, Uriah the priest, and Zechariah, the son of Jeberechiah.
I made my way to the prophetess; she got herself with child and had a son. Then the Lord said to me: Name him Maher-shalal-hash-baz.
‘Cause listen here, the young'un won’t even know how to holler "My daddy," and "My mama," before the riches of Damascus and the spoils of Samaria are snatched away by the king of Assyria.
Then the Lord spoke again, sayin':
Since this bunch won’t drink from the gentle waters of Shiloah and instead, get all worked up over Rezin and Remaliah’s son;
Now, looky here, the Lord’s fixin' to unleash on ‘em the mighty waters of the river, strong and plenty, even the king of Assyria and all his top-notch folks; he’s gonna flood right over every channel and banks.
He’ll come rollin’ through Judah; he’ll overflow and drown ‘em up to their necks; and his wings will stretch out and take up all the land, O Immanuel.
You folks gather ’round, and you’ll find yourselves shattered; listen up, folks from afar; gird up, and you’ll be broken in pieces; yes, gird up, and you’ll be broken in pieces.
Put your heads together, and it’ll all come to nothin’; speak your piece, and it won’t hold up; for God’s right here with us.
‘Cause the Lord laid it on me pretty firmly, instructin’ me not to walk the path of this people, tellin’ me:
Don’t you go sayin’ “They’re in cahoots,” to what this people claims is "in cahoots;" don’t fear their fright, nor be scared.
Make the Lord of Hosts your sanctified one; let Him be your fear and your dread.
And He’ll be a safe spot; but for many, He’ll be a rock they stumble on and a trap for both the houses of Israel, a snare and a pitfall for the folks in Jerusalem.
And plenty among 'em will stumble and fall, get broken, and caught.
Tie up the testimony, and seal the law among my followers.
And I’ll keep my eyes peeled for the Lord, who’s hidin' His face from the house of Jacob; I’m on the lookout for Him.
Look here, me and the young’uns the Lord gave me are signs and wonders in Israel, from the Lord of Hosts, who’s sittin’ up there in Mount Zion.
And when they come sayin': "Seek the ones who’ve got familiar spirits, and the wizards who peep and mutter"—shouldn’t a folk be seekin’ their God, the living, to hear from the dead?
Stick to the law and to the testimony; and if they ain’t speakin’ this way, it’s ‘cause there ain’t no light in 'em.
They’ll wander through it, barely hangin’ on and hungerin’; and when they get hungry, they’ll start fussin’, cursin’ their king and their God, and lookin’ up.
They’ll be peekin' at the earth, and it’ll be a sight of trouble, darkness, and the gloom of anguish, drivin' ‘em right into darkness.
