Well now, let me spin these verses into some good ol’ frontier talk for ya:
Look out for them folks usin’ wicked laws and penning down all sorts of heavy burdens.
They sure as shootin’ aim to keep the needy outta court and rob the poor of what’s theirs, makin’ widows their targets and takin’ from the orphans too!
What in tarnation will ya do when the day of reckoning rolls around and the hard times come a-callin’ from afar? Where’ll ya run for help, and where’ll ya stash your pride?
Without me, they gonna be bowin’ low ‘neath their captives, and they’re bound to fall among the slain. Even so, the Lord’s ire ain’t calmed, his hand’s still reachin’ out.
O Assyrian, yer a smacker of my wrath, and that stick in your hand, that’s just your anger talkin’.
I’m gonna send him against a two-faced nation, handin’ him orders to plunder, snatchin’ up the spoils, and tramplin’ ‘em down like mud on the road.
But don’t go thinkin’ he’s doin’ it outta the goodness of his heart; his heart’s all bent on destroyin’ nations, and there ain’t just a couple.
He brags about his princes bein’ kings, all fine and dandy like.
Ain’t Calno just like Carchemish? Ain’t Hamath like Arpad? Ain’t Samaria just like Damascus?
Just like my hand built the kingdoms of these idols, and the statues shine brighter than them in Jerusalem and Samaria;
So ain’t I gonna treat Jerusalem and her idols just like I did to Samaria and her trinkets?
You betcha, when the Lord’s done with his business on Mount Zion and Jerusalem, I’ll bring down the king of Assyria for thinkin’ so highly of himself.
He struts around sayin’ it’s his power and smarts got him all this; he thinks he’s clever and has stomped all over folks, takin’ their goods like a tough cowboy.
My hand’s scooped up the riches of the land like collectin’ eggs from a nest; not a soul stirred a wing, opened a mouth, or made a peep.
Can the ax gloat ‘bout the hand that swings it? Can the saw boast ‘gainst the feller holdin’ it? That’d be like a stick tryin’ to flex its muscles on the ones hoistin’ it up!
So, the Lord of Hosts will send thin times amongst his plump ones; under his majesty, he’ll light a fire like a campfire blaze.
And the light of Israel’ll be a flame, and his Holy One a true fire, burnin’ up his thorns and briars on the double;
And will gobble up the pride of his forests and bounteous fields — body and soul, they’ll be like a standard-bearer who’s run outta steam.
And the rest of the trees in his woods will be so few that a kid could jot ‘em down.
On that day, the leftover folks of Israel, and them that got away from Jacob’s house, ain’t gonna lean on the one who hurt ‘em anymore, but will turn to the Lord, the Holy One of Israel, truthful-like.
The leftover bunch will come back, sure as shootin’, even the remnant of Jacob, to the mighty God.
Even if your people, Israel, be as plentiful as sand on a shore, just a remnant will come back; the judgement set will overflow with fairness.
For the Lord God of Hosts is gonna make a thorough sifting from one end of the land to the other.
So listen up, the Lord God of Hosts says: O my people livin’ in Zion, don’t you fret none ‘bout the Assyrian; he’ll swing his stick at ya, just like Egypt did.
Yet, it won’t be long, and the fury will cool, and my anger will settle ‘gainst their ruin.
The Lord of Hosts will whip up a scourge for him, just like he did against Midian at the rock of Oreb; and like his rod on the sea, he’ll lift it up just like before in Egypt.
And it’ll be as sure as daylight that his load’s gonna be lifted off your shoulders, and his yoke off your neck, and that burden’ll be smashed ‘cause of the anointin’.
He’s made his way to Aiath, movin' through Migron; Michmash is where he’s stacked up his wagons.
They’ve crossed over the river; they’re settin’ camp at Geba; Ramath’s shakin’ in its boots, and Gibeah of Saul’s run off.
Shout out, O daughter of Gallim; make sure it’s heard in Laish, O poor Anathoth.
Madmenah’s on the run; the folks of Gebim are gatherin’ to skedaddle.
He’ll still be at Nob that day; he’ll wave his hand at the mount of Zion’s daughter, the hill of Jerusalem.
Look out, the Lord, the Lord of Hosts is gonna chop down the high branches with a fright; the tall and proud will get cut low.
And he'll level the thickets of the forests with iron, and mighty Lebanon will fall to the strong arm.
