Well now, I reckon it’s time for me to talk a bit 'bout what I’ve been scribblin’ down, which comes straight from the lips of Isaiah. Y'see, Isaiah had a heap of things to say that left many of my folks scratchin' their heads ‘cause they ain't got a clue 'bout how the Jews do their prophesyin’.
Now, me bein’ Nephi, I ain't taught 'em much 'bout how them Jews do things; their ways were shrouded in darkness, and what they were up to was downright abominable.
So, I'm a-writin’ to all y’all out there who’ll happen upon my words, hopin’ you’ll figure out the judgments of the Good Lord, which fall upon all folks, just like He said.
So listen up, my kin of the house of Israel, lend me your ears; even if Isaiah’s words seem muddled to ya, they’re as clear as day to those filled with the spirit of prophecy. I’m a-givin’ ya a prophecy, fueled by the spirit within me; I’ll prophesy plain as day, just like I’ve been doin’ since I moseyed outta Jerusalem with my old man; my heart just revels in plain speakin’ so my people can learn.
Darn tootin', my heart rejoices in Isaiah's words, 'cause I left Jerusalem, stood witness to the goin’s-on with those Jews, and I know they can grasp the words of the prophets better than anyone else, unless they’re taught the way the Jews teach.
But just so ya know, I, Nephi, ain't been teachin’ my young'uns the ways of the Jews; I’ve spent my days in Jerusalem, knowin' the lay of the land. I’ve told my kiddos 'bout God’s judgments that’ve come upon the Jews, according to all that Isaiah preached, and I ain’t a-writin’ ‘em down.
I’m goin’ on with my own prophecy, keepin’ it plain as can be; in this way, I know no man can go wrong, but when Isaiah's prophecies come to pass, folks will surely figure it out.
So, these words are mighty important for folks, and if’n you think they ain't, I’ll be speakin’ directly to my own people; I know they’ll find great value in 'em when the last days roll 'round, 'cause they'll understand 'em by then, which is why I’ve written ‘em.
Just like one generation of Jews bit the dust 'cause of their wicked ways, it seems they’ve been a-gettin’ wiped out one after another for their sins; never has a generation been wiped out ‘fore it got a good warning from the Lord’s prophets.
Now, it was told to ‘em ‘bout the trouble comin’ right after my old man left Jerusalem; but they stiffened their necks, and just as I prophesied, they got wiped out, except for those dragged off to Babylon.
Now I’m speakin’ ‘cause of the spirit that's stirrin’ in me. And even though they got carried off, they’ll find their way back and lay claim to the land of Jerusalem again; it ain’t their last rodeo in their old stompin’ grounds.
But, y’know, they’re gonna have themselves some tussles and wild rumors flyin’ round; and when the time comes for the Only Begotten of the Father; yes, the Father of heaven and earth, to show Himself, they’re gonna turn their backs on Him due to their sins, their hard hearts, and stubborn necks.
Now listen, they’ll nail Him to a tree; and after He’s laid to rest for three days, He’ll rise from the dead, bringin’ healing with Him; and all who trust in His name will find salvation in the kingdom of God. My heart can’t help but be happy to talk 'bout Him, 'cause I’ve seen His day, and I glorify His holy name!
And mark my words; when the Messiah rises from the dead and shows up to His folks, as many as will believe in His name, Jerusalem’s gonna meet its end again; oh, woe be to those who go up against God and His church!
So, the Jews will be scattered far and wide; yep, Babylon's gonna face its doom too; the Jews will be spread thin among other nations.
And after they’ve been spread around, and the Lord’s scourged ‘em through other nations for many, many generations, down through the ages, they’ll finally be convinced to believe in Christ, the Son of God, and His infinite atonement for everyone—and when that time comes when they truly believe in Christ, worship the Father in His name with pure hearts and clean hands, and quit lookin’ for another Messiah, that’ll be the time when they oughta know they need to believe these things.
Then the Lord will roll up His sleeves again for a second time to restore His people from their lost and fallen ways. He’s gonna do a wondrous work among folks.
He’ll bring forth His words to them, which will judge ‘em come the last day, meant to convince ‘em of the true Messiah, who they rejected; and to show ‘em they don’t need to wait for another Messiah, ‘cause no others are comin’ but a false one to lead folks astray; 'cause there’s only one true Messiah, spoken of by the prophets, and He’s the one the Jews turned their backs on.
‘Cause according to the prophets, the Messiah’s comin’ six hundred years after my old man left Jerusalem; and just as the prophets and the angel of God has said, His name will be Jesus Christ, the Son of God.
Now, brothers, I’ve spoken straight as a rifle shot so y’all can’t miss the mark. Just as the Lord God lives who brought Israel up from the land of Egypt, and gave Moses the power to heal folks bitten by snakes, if they just looked at the serpent he held up, and also gave him the power to strike a rock to get water, I say to you, as surely as these things are true, and the Lord God lives, there ain't no other name under heaven but this Jesus Christ I’m speakin’ of that folks can count on for salvation.
So this is why the Lord God promised me that what I’m writin’ will be kept and passed down to my kin, from one generation to the next, so the promise to Joseph about his seed never perishing will hold true as long as this ol' earth stands.
These words will be shared from one generation to the next till the end of time; and they’ll go according to the will of God; the nations that take hold of ‘em will be judged by ‘em according to what’s been written.
We work real hard to put pen to paper, tryin’ to persuade our young'uns and our kin to believe in Christ and patch things up with God; ‘cause we know it’s through grace that we get saved, after we do all we can.
And even though we believe in Christ, we still keep the law of Moses, and we’re steadfastly lookin’ to Christ, till the law’s all wrapped up.
‘Cause that’s the purpose of the law; it’s become dead to us, but we’re alive in Christ ‘cause of our faith; yet we keep the law 'cause of the commandments.
We talk ‘bout Christ, we’re joyous in Christ, we spread the word of Christ, we prophesy about Christ, and we write based on our prophecies, so our children know where to look for the forgiveness of their misdeeds.
So, we’re a-speak in’ ‘bout the law so our kids can grasp its deadness; and by knowin’ the law is lifeless, they can look ahead to the life found in Christ, and see the purpose of the law. And after the law finds its fulfillment in Christ, they won’t harden their hearts against Him when the law should be done away.
Now listen up, my people: y’all are stiff-necked folks; hence, I’m speakin’ plainly so you can’t get it twisted. The words I’ve shared will stand as a witness against ya; ‘cause they’re enough to guide any man down the right path; and the right path is to believe in Christ and not deny Him; ‘cause by denyin’ Him, y’all also deny the prophets and the law.
I tell ya straight, the right way is to believe in Christ and not deny Him; and Christ is the Holy One of Israel; so ya gotta kneel before Him, worship Him with all your might, mind, strength, and whole soul; and if ya do that, you won’t be cast out.
And as long as it’s needful, ya gotta keep up with the performances and ordinances of God till the law given to Moses is all said and done.
