Well, partner, after Christ kicks the bucket and comes back to life, He’s gonna show Himself to ya, my young’uns, and my dear kinfolk; and the words He’ll spin for ya are gonna be the law you oughta follow.
Now listen here, I’m tellin’ ya that I’ve seen many a generation pass by, and there’s gonna be mighty wars and rough pickin' among my folks.
And after the Messiah rides in, there’ll be some signs for my people 'bout His birth, and also about His death and rising up; that day’s gonna be awful and scary for the wicked, 'cause they’ll be headin’ for doom; and they’re bringin’ it on themselves ‘cause they’ve thrown out the prophets and the saints, throwin' rocks at 'em and doin' 'em in; so the cries of the saints' spilled blood will be hollerin’ up to God from the ground.
So, all you proud folks and the ones up to no good, that day comin’ on will set ya ablaze, says the big Chief up above, 'cause you’ll be burnin’ like dried-up weeds.
And those who put an end to the prophets and the saints are gonna get swallowed up by the earth, says the Lord of Hosts; mountains will cover 'em, and whirlwinds will sweep 'em away, and buildings will fall on 'em and smash 'em into dust.
They’ll be visited with thunder, lightning, earthquakes, and all sorts of chaos, 'cause the fire of the Lord’s anger is gonna flare up against 'em, and they’ll be like dried-up weeds, and that day’s comin’ to roast 'em, says the Lord of Hosts.
Oh, the heartache and agony of my soul for the slain of my folks! For I, Nephi, have seen it, and it’s nearly eaten me alive before the Lord; but I must call out to my God: Your ways are fair.
But look here, the good folks who listen to the prophets, and don’t do 'em wrong, but keep their eyes on Christ with steadfast hearts waitin’ for the signs—even with all the rough times—they’re the ones who won’t face ruin.
But the Son of Righteousness will show up for 'em; He’ll heal 'em, and they'll find peace with Him, until three generations roll by, and many of the fourth will have lived righteously.
And when all this blows over, a quick end is comin’ for my folks; for even with my soul's heavy troubles, I know it’s gonna happen after seein’ it; and they’re sellin’ their souls for nothin’; for the price of their pride and foolishness will lead 'em to destruction; 'cause they’re givin’ in to the devil and pickin’ the works of darkness over the light, so down to hell they go.
‘Cause the Spirit of the Lord ain’t gonna wrestle with folks forever. And when the Spirit ain’t pushin’ on them no more, a swift downfall comes, and that cuts deep in my soul.
And as I jawed 'bout convincing the Jews that Jesus is truly the Christ, it’s gotta come that the Gentiles get convinced too that Jesus is the Christ, the Eternal God;
And that He shows Himself to all who got faith in Him, by the strength of the Holy Ghost; that’s right, to every nation, race, tongue, and crowd, performin’ mighty miracles, signs, and wonders among the folks according to their belief.
But listen here, I’m prophesyin’ 'bout the last days; when the Lord God’s gonna bring these things forward to the folks.
After my kin and my brethren's kids dwindle in doubt, and get taken down by the Gentiles; yeah, after the Lord God lays siege against ‘em and camps all around ‘em, and builds up defenses against ‘em; after they get brought low into the dirt, like they ain't even there, still the words of the good folks will be written down, and the prayers of the faithful will be heard, and all those who’ve fallen into doubt won’t be forgotten.
For those who get wiped out will be talkin’ to 'em from the ground, and their voices will be low like a spirit dyin’ to be heard; for the Lord God will give ‘em the power to whisper to their people, just like it came from the dirt; and their words will be whisperin’ up from the dust.
For the Lord God says: They’ll write down the things happenin’ around ‘em, and it’ll get penned and sealed in a book, and those who’ve lost their way in disbelief won’t have it, ‘cause they’re out to ruin God’s works.
So just like those who’ve been wiped out got taken down quick; many of their terrible ones will blow away like chaff—yep, the Lord God says: It’ll happen in a flash, all of a sudden—
And it’s gonna come down that those who’ve dwindled in doubt will get knocked down by the Gentiles.
And the Gentiles are puffed up with pride and have tripped themselves up, over the large rock they’ve built plenty of churches on; still, they’re puttin’ aside the might and miracles of God, preachin’ their own wisdom and learnin’, just to make a buck and grind the poor folks down.
And there’s a whole mess of churches poppin’ up that stir up envy and strife and ill-will.
And there’s shady groups too, like back in the day, workin' under the devil’s schemes, for he’s the one runnin’ this whole show; yep, he’s the one behind murderin’ and all things dark; and he’s draggin’ ‘em around by a flimsy rope, till he ties ‘em up for good with his heavy shackles.
So listen well, my dear brothers, I’m tellin’ ya that the Lord God don’t move in darkness.
He don’t do nothin’ unless it’s for the good of the world; for He loves the world, even givin’ up His own life to haul everyone in. So He don’t tell nobody they can't have a taste of His salvation.
So does He holler at anyone, sayin’: Get away from me? I tell ya, no; rather, He’s sayin’: Come to me, all ye out in the world, grab a glass of milk and honey, no charge and no price.
Does He order any to take off from the church houses or places of worship? I say, nah.
Has He told anyone they can’t enjoy His salvation? I say, nah; rather, He’s laid it out free for all folks; and He’s told His people to persuade everyone to repent.
Does the Lord command anyone not to take part in His goodness? I say, nope; all folks are offered the same, and none are kept out.
He insists no folks can set up any priestcrafts; 'cause priestcrafts is folks showin’ up to preach and claimin' a light for themselves to make a name for their own gain, ignorin’ the good of Zion.
You bet, the Lord’s had enough of that; that’s why He’s given a command that all folks oughta have charity, which is plain ol’ love. And if they ain’t got charity, they’re nothin’. So if they had the charity, they wouldn’t let the laborer in Zion starve.
But the workers in Zion will toil for Zion; 'cause if they’re workin’ for cash, they’re gonna meet their end.
And once again, the Lord God’s commanded that folks shouldn’t murder; shouldn’t lie; shouldn’t steal; shouldn’t take the name of the Lord their God lightly; shouldn’t envy; shouldn’t hold grudges; shouldn’t bicker with one another; shouldn’t commit whoredom; and none of these wrongdoings—'cause anyone who does 'em is bound to perish.
None of these wrongs come from the Lord; for He’s doin’ good among the folks; and He don’t do nothin’ unless it’s plain as day to the people; and He’s callin’ everybody to come to Him and share in His goodness; and He turns away no one who comes to Him, black or white, bond or free, male or female; and He remembers all folks out there; and to God, everybody’s the same, both Jew and Gentile.
