Well now, listen up, folks, 'cause I’m fixin’ to share some truths that’ve been weighin’ heavy on my heart, as the Spirit’s been givin’ me a nudge; so I reckon these things are bound to happen.
The stuff writ down in this here book is gonna be mighty important for the folks of this world, especially for our kin, who are a remnant of the good ol' house of Israel.
Now, in them days to come, there'll be a whole mess of churches poppin' up, but they ain't built for the Lord. You’ll hear one fella say he’s the Lord's, while another man claims the same; and every huckster with a church'll be shoutin' the same thing.
They’ll be squabblin’ amongst themselves, and their so-called priests will be bickerin’, too. They’ll rely on their learnin’ but turn their backs on the Holy Ghost that gives ‘em the words to speak.
They’ll shun the power of God, the Holy One of Israel, tellin’ people: "Listen to us, and follow our rules; 'cause there ain't no God today—Jesus and the Redeemer done their work and handed their power off to us folks.”
Listen close to my advice: if somebody claims there’s a miracle from the Lord, don’t you believe a word of it; 'cause today, He ain’t a God of miracles—His work is already done.
You betcha there’ll be many sayin’: “Let’s eat, drink, and be merry, 'cause tomorrow we kick the bucket,” and they’ll feel just fine about it.
And you’ll find plenty sayin’: “Let’s eat, drink, and be merry; but don’t forget to have a little fear of God—He’ll give us a pass on a wee bit of sin; go ahead and lie a tad, take the upper hand on your neighbor, dig a pit for him—ain’t no harm in that—and go on doin’ it; 'cause when judgment day comes, if we’re guilty, God’ll only give us a few whippings, and in the end, we’ll waltz right into the kingdom of God.
Sure as shootin’, there’ll be many teachin’ all kinds of foolish lies, puffin’ themselves up with pride while they try to keep their secrets hidden from the Lord; their deeds’ll be done in the shadows.
And let me tell ya, the blood of the saints will be hollerin’ out from the ground against ‘em.
Yep, they’ve all strayed off the path; they’ve gone and gotten corrupted.
It’s all 'cause of pride and the lies from false teachers and bad doctrine that their churches have gone sour, puffed up like a toad.
They’re robbin’ the poor to build their fancy sanctuaries; they’re takin’ from the needy to get themselves decked out in fine clothes; and they’re givin’ the meek and the poor a rough time, all ‘cause their pride’s inflate like a balloon.
They strut around with their noses in the air; and yessiree, because of pride, wickedness, and all sorts of sins and debauchery, they’ve wandered off the path, ‘cept for a few humble followers of Christ; yet even they get led astray sometimes ‘cause they’re schooled in the ways of men.
Oh, those wise and learned rich folks, all puffed up in their pride, those preachin’ falsehoods and messin’ with right ways of the Lord—woe unto ‘em, says the Lord God Almighty! They’re bound for hellfire!
Woe betide the ones that turn their backs on the righteous for a pile of nothin’ and scoff at what’s good, sayin’ it ain’t worth a dime! The day’s comin’ when the Lord God’ll come ‘round quick-like to the folks on this earth; and when they’ve grown ripe in their iniquity, they’ll meet their end.
But listen here, if the folks of this earth choose to turn their backs on their wicked ways, they’ll get a pass and not be wiped out, says the Lord of Hosts.
Look out for that great and terrible church, the whore of all the earth—it’s fixin’ to tumble down hard, and when it falls, it’ll be a sight to behold.
The kingdom of the devil’s gotta shake up, and those who belong to it better be ready to repent, or the devil will snatch ‘em up in his gnarly chains, stirrin’ ‘em up to wrath and their own doom!
For on that day, he’ll be stirrin’ trouble in the hearts of folks, raisin’ their tempers against all things good.
And others he’ll soothe, lullin’ ‘em into a false sense of security, makin’ ‘em say: “All’s well in Zion; sure as shootin’, Zion's prosperin’, all’s right as rain”—and with that, the devil’s wranglin' their souls and leadin' ‘em down to a fiery pit.
And behold, he’ll flatter others, tellin’ ‘em there ain't no hell, whisperin’ sweet nothings like: “I’m no devil, and there ain’t no such thing”—and he’ll keep at it till he wraps ‘em up in chains from which they can’t break free.
Yup, they’ll be captured by death and hell; and death, hell, and the devil, along with all who’ve been caught, will stand in front of God’s throne to be judged 'cordin' to their actions, and they’ll be thrown into a bottomless lake of fire and brimstone, full of torment.
So woe unto them that’s sittin’ pretty in Zion!
Woe unto them that shout: “All’s well!”
Yep, woe upon anyone who listens to the whims of men and denies the power of God and the gift of the Holy Ghost!
Woe be to the one that says: “We’ve got what we need, and we don’t need nothin’ else!”
And in the end, woe to all who shake with fear and anger at the truth of God! For those built on a solid rock will take it with joy; while those on a shaky foundation will quake, afraid they’ll tumble down.
Woe to anyone sayin’: “We’ve got the word of God, and we don’t need any more of it, 'cause we’ve had our fill!”
For the Lord God says: “I’ll hand out wisdom line by line, a little here and a little there; blessed is he who listens to my ways and pays heed to my advice, for they’ll gain understanding; for to the one who receives from me, I’ll give more; but from those who say, ‘I’ve had enough,’ I’ll take what they got away from ‘em.”
Cursed be the one who puts their trust in mere men, relyin’ on their strength, or listens to the words of men, unless those words are from the Spirit of the Holy Ghost.
Woe unto the Gentiles, says the Lord God of Hosts! For even though I stretch out my hand to ‘em day after day, they’ll keep denyin’ me; but still, I’ll show mercy unto them, says the Lord, if they’ll repent and come to me, for my arm is stretched out to ‘em all day long, saith the Lord God of Hosts.
