Well now, a whole mess o' folks will be turnin' their backs on the Book of Mormon—They'll holler, We ain't in need of no more scripture—The Good Lord's got his ear to many a nation—He’ll reckon with the land based on the books that'll be penned. 'Bout 559–545 B.C.
But mark my words, there'll be a heap o' folks—when the day comes that I’ll roll out a miraculous deed among ‘em, to keep my promises made to the sons of men, to set my hand to wrangle back my kin, the folks from the house of Israel;
And don't you forget, that I’ll keep the promises I made to you, Nephi, and your old man too, to keep an eye on your descendants; and that the words from your folks will spill out of my mouth to your kin; and my words will sizzle out to the far corners of the earth, standin' tall for my peoples, the house of Israel;
And since my words will sizzle hot—many a gentile will shout: A Bible! A Bible! We’ve got us a Bible, and there ain’t no room for more.
But here's what the Lord God says: You fools, they’ll have their Bible; and it’ll come straight from the Jews, my long-remembered covenant folks. And what thanks do the Jews get for the scripture they hand over? What in tarnation do the Gentiles mean by that? Do they recall the struggles, the sweat, and the sorrows of the Jews, and their hard work for me to bring salvation to the Gentiles?
Hey you Gentiles, did ya think about the Jews, my ancient covenant folks? Nope; you’ve cursed ‘em, hated ‘em, and done nothin’ to bring ‘em back. But watch out, I’m gonna settle the score on y'all; for I, the Lord, haven’t forgotten my people.
You simpleton, claimin’: A Bible, we got a Bible, and no need for more. Did ya get that Bible any other way than from the Jews?
Ain't it clear that there’s more than one nation? Don’t you reckon that I, the Lord your God, made all men, and I keep track of those on the isles of the sea; I reign in the heavens above and down on the earth; I’m bringin' my word to the children of men, even all over the earth?
So why are ya grumblin', just 'cause you’ll get more of my word? Don’t you know that the testimony of two nations stands as a witness that I’m God, and I remember one nation just as I do another? That’s why I say the same words to one nation as I do to another. When the two nations come together, their testimonies will too.
And I’m doin’ this to prove to many folks that I’m the same yesterday, today, and forever; and I ain’t shy about speakin’ my words however I see fit. Just 'cause I’ve uttered one word don’t mean I can’t say another; my work ain't done yet, and it won’t be till the end of mankind, nor from that time on till forever.
So just ‘cause you got yourselves a Bible don’t mean it’s packed with all my words; nor should you think I haven’t got more writin’ in the works.
For I command all folks, in the east and the west, and in the north and the south, and on the islands of the sea, to write down the words I speak to 'em; for from the books that’ll be penned, I’ll judge the world, every last one of 'em, based on their works, according to what’s written.
For lo, I’ll be talkin’ to the Jews and they’ll scribble it down; I’ll also speak to the Nephites and they’ll write it too; and I’ll talk to the other tribes of the house of Israel, those I’ve led away, and they’ll put it to paper; and I’ll be speakin’ to all nations of the earth and they’ll write it.
And it’ll come to be that the Jews will have the words of the Nephites, and the Nephites will have the words of the Jews; the Nephites and Jews will hold the words of the lost tribes of Israel; and those lost tribes will have the words from the Nephites and the Jews.
And it’ll also come to pass that my folks, who belong to the house of Israel, will be rounded up and brought back to their rightful lands; and my word will be gathered up all together. And I’ll show all who fight against my word and my people, the house of Israel, that I am God, and I made a covenant with Abraham that I’d remember his descendants forever.
