Well now, listen up, my dear brothers, I got somethin’ to share with ya; ‘cause I, Nephi, don’t want ya thinkin’ yer any better than them Gentiles out yonder. Truth be told, if ya don’t follow the Almighty’s commandments, y’all are bound to meet the same fate as the rest; and don’t get it twisted, just ‘cause folks been jawin’, don’t mean those Gentiles are all wiped out.
I’m tellin’ ya, any Gentiles who’re willin’ to turn their lives around are part of the Lord’s chosen folks; and them Jews who refuse to mend their ways, well, they’re gonna be left out in the cold; ‘cause the Lord only makes deals with the repentant and those who have faith in His Son, the Holy One of Israel.
Now, I’m fixin’ to give a word or two more about the Jews and the Gentiles. After that book I mentioned comes around, bein’ written for the Gentiles and then sealed tight for the Lord, there’s gonna be a heap of folks who believe the words penned down; and they’ll spread ‘em out to the rest of our kinfolk.
Then the lot of our descendants will catch wind of how we hightailed it outta Jerusalem, and they’ll figure out they’re kin to the Jews, too.
The good news of Jesus Christ will be preached among ‘em; and they’re gonna learn all ‘bout their ancestors, and also about Jesus, just like their forebears knew Him.
And they'll be happier’n a lark; ‘cause they’ll know it’s a gift from God’s own hand, and the dark clouds over their eyes will start to lift; generations will pass, but they’ll be a pure and joyous folk.
Then the scattered Jews will start to trust in Christ, and they’ll come together on the land; every one of ‘em who believes will be counted among the joyful folks.
It'll be that the Lord God will start His mighty work among all the nations, tribes, tongues, and folks, bringin’ back His people to the earth.
With fairness, the Lord God will judge the humble, givin’ a fair shake to the meek; He’ll give the earth a whack with His mighty voice, and by the wind of His breath, He’s gonna send the wicked to their end.
The time’s a-comin’ right quick when the Lord God will set folks apart, gettin' rid of the wicked; and He’ll protect His people, even if it means sendin’ the bad guys up in flames.
Righteousness will be His trusty belt, and faithfulness will hold ‘im up strong.
Then a wolf will lay down easy with a lamb; a leopard will snuggle up with a kid and a young calf, while even a lion and a fattened calf will be layin’ together, and a little young’un will lead ‘em all.
The cow and bear will munch side by side; their young’uns will be nestled together, and a lion will munch on grass like a trusty ox.
A wee babe will be playin’ near a snake’s hole, and a weaned toddler will poke at the den of a nasty critter.
They won’t cause no harm or destruction anywhere on my holy mountain; ‘cause the land will be bright with the knowledge of the Lord, just like the waters fill the sea.
So then, all the happenings of every nation will be laid bare; yep, everything will come to light for the good folks.
Ain’t nothin’ kept secret that won’t come out eventually; and no dark deeds will remain hidden in the light; and there’s nothin’ sealed on this earth that won’t be set free.
So all the truths revealed to folks will come out clear as day; and ol’ Satan won’t have no hold on the hearts of men for a long spell. And now, my dear brothers, I reckon I’ve said all I need to say.
