Well now, I, Nephi, reckon it's time to wrap up my tellin’ to y’all, my dear kinfolk. I can only scribble down a handful of things that I reckon are bound to come true; I can’t pen but a few words from my brother, Jacob.
So, what I’ve jotted down’ll do me just fine, 'cept for a bit of talk I got to share ‘bout the teachings of Christ; so I'll lay it out for ya plain and simple, just like I been prophesying.
My heart gets all warm and fuzzy about plain speakin’; that’s how the Good Lord does His business with us folks out here. The Lord gives insight to our understanding; He talks to us in a way we can grasp.
So, I hope you’all remember, I’ve spoken ‘bout that prophet the Good Lord showed me, the one who’s gonna dunk the Lamb of God, who takes away the world's wrongdoings.
Now, if the Lamb of God, bein’ pure as snow, still needed to get dunked in water to do things right, then I reckon we folks, bein’ full of muck, gotta get baptized too, by gum!
So I got a question for you, my dear kin, how did the Lamb of God nail down all that 'righteousness' by gettin’ a dip in water?
Ain’t y’all understandin’ that he was as holy as they come? But even so, he humbled himself before the Father in the flesh, showin’ he meant to obey Him and keep His commandments.
So, after he got his water baptism, the Holy Ghost swooped down on him like a dove.
And again, it shows folks how tight the path is and how narrow the gate they gotta go through, he bein’ the example set out for us.
He called out to folks, "Follow me." So I ask, my dear brothers, can we really follow Jesus if we ain't willin' to stick to the Father’s rules?
And the Father hollered, “Repent, repent, and get yourself baptized in the name of my Beloved Son.”
And right then, I heard the Son sayin’ to me, “Those who get dunked in my name, the Father will grant the Holy Ghost to ‘em, same as I got; so come on, follow me, and do the things I done done.”
So I reckon, my beloved brothers, that if you follow the Son with a true heart, no foolin’ or deceivin’ God, but with real intent, turnin’ from your misdeeds, and givin’ witness to the Father that you’re ready to take on the name of Christ through baptism—yep, followin' your Lord and Savior down into the water, just as He said—you’ll get the Holy Ghost; yeah, then comes that fiery baptism and the Holy Ghost; and you’ll be able to talk like angels and give praises to the Holy One of Israel.
But, hold on, my dear brethren! The Son spoke to me sayin’, “Once you've turned from your sins, and let the Father know you’ll keep my commandments through water baptism, and have received that fire and Holy Ghost, and you’re gabbin’ like an angel, and if after all this you deny me, it’s better you’d never heard of me at all.”
And I caught a voice from the Father sayin’, “Yes, the words of my Beloved are true and faithful. He who hangs on till the end, he’ll be saved.”
Now, my dear kin, I've learned that if a feller don’t endure till the end, followin’ the example of the Son of the livin’ God, he ain’t gonna find salvation.
So do what I told ya, and remember what your Lord and Redeemer did; these things were shown to me so you’d know the gate you need to enter through. That gate is repentance and water baptism; then you’ll see your sins washed away by fire and the Holy Ghost.
Once you’re on that narrow path that leads to eternal life, you’ve gone through the gate; you’ve done what the Father and the Son asked of you; and you’ve received the Holy Ghost, which gives witness of the Father and the Son, in fulfillin’ the promise He made that if you come in through this way, you’ll be given.
Now, my dear brothers, after you’ve set foot on this narrow path, let me ask you, is that all there is to it? Well, no sir; you didn’t come this far unless it was by Christ’s word, with a faith that don’t waver, leanin’ fully on the power of the one who’s mighty to save.
So you gotta keep plowin' ahead with determination in Christ, full of bright hope, and love for God and all folks. So if you keep on pressin' forward, feasting on Christ’s word, and endure to the end, behold, here’s what the Father Says to you: You’ll have eternal life.
And now, listen up, my dear kin, this is the way to go; there ain't no other road nor name under the heavens that’ll lead a feller to salvation in God’s kingdom. And for truth, this is the teachings of Christ, the only true word of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost, which is one God, forevermore. Amen.
