Angels chatter by the might of the Holy Spirit—Folks gotta pray and rustle up some wisdom for themselves from the Holy Spirit. ‘Bout 559–545 B.C.  
Well now, listen up, my dear comrades, I reckon y’all are thinkin’ a bit in your hearts ‘bout what to do after you’ve hitched your wagon to the right trail. But tell me, why do y’all keep wrestlin’ with these thoughts in your hearts?  
Ain’t you recall when I told ya that after ya got the Holy Spirit, you’d be able to gab like the angels? Now, how in tarnation could ya gab like the angels ‘less it’s through the Holy Spirit?  
Angels yap by the strength of the Holy Spirit; so, they’re spillin’ the words of Christ. Therefore, I told ya to feast on the words of Christ; ‘cause, listen up, them words will tell ya all the things you oughta do.  
So, now that I’ve given ya these words, if y’all can’t make sense of ‘em, it’s ‘cause you ain’t askin’ nor knockin’; therefore, you ain’t step into the light, and you’ll be stuck wanderin’ in the dark.  
For listen close, I tell ya again, if you’re fixin’ to hit the trail the right way and accept the Holy Spirit, it’ll show ya all the things you oughta do.  
Take heed, this here’s the doctrine of Christ, and there ain’t gonna be no more doctrine till after he shows up in the flesh. And when he does appear to ya in the flesh, the things he’ll tell ya, you best be watchin’ to do.  
And right now, I, Nephi, can’t say no more; the Spirit’s tied my tongue, and I’m left here to grieve ‘cause of the doubt, the wickedness, the ignorance, and the stubbornness of folks; they won’t seek out knowledge, nor catch on to the great wisdom when it’s given plain as day, straight as a whistle.  
And now, my dear brethren, I see you're still thinkin’ hard in your hearts; and it pains me that I gotta talk ‘bout this. For if you’d just listen to the Spirit that teaches a man to pray, you’d know you oughta pray; ‘cause the evil spirit don’t teach a man to pray, but shows him he shouldn’t.  
But let me tell ya, you gotta pray all the livelong day, and not lose heart; don’t go doin’ nothin’ for the Lord ‘til you’ve first prayed to the Father in the name of Christ, askin’ him to bless your doin’, so it can be for the good of your soul.  
