Well now, I, Nephi, reckon I gotta share a few words ‘bout them prophecies my daddy got to spoutin’, ‘bout a fella named Joseph who got carried off to Egypt.
Seein’ as he really did prophesy ‘bout all his kin. And the prophetic words he put down, ain’t many that beat ‘em. He also spoke ‘bout us and our young’uns down the line, and it’s all scribbled on them brass plates.
So after my old man wrapped up his talk ‘bout Joseph’s prophecies, he called over the young’uns of Laman, both the boys and gals, and said to ‘em: Now listen here, my sons and daughters, who are the young’uns of my firstborn, I want y’all to lend me your ears.
For the Good Lord done said: If’n y’all keep my commandments, you’ll thrive in this here land; but if’n you don’t keep ‘em, then you’ll be cut off from my sight.
But listen here, my young’uns, I can’t kick the bucket without leavin' you a blessing; for I know if you’re raised proper-like, you won’t stray from the right trail.
So if y’all get cursed, I’m leavin’ my blessing on you, to take that curse off you and put it back on your folks.
Because of my blessing, the Good Lord won’t let y’all perish; He’ll have mercy on you and all your kin for good measure.
Well, it came to pass after my old man finished speakin' to Laman's kids, he wrangled up the young’uns of Lemuel so they could stand before him.
He talked to 'em, sayin': Now listen here, my sons and daughters, who are the children of my second boy; I’m leavin’ you the same blessing I gave Laman's kids; you won’t be wiped off the map, but in the end, your kin shall be blessed.
Next thing you know, my daddy, Lehi, turned to talk to the sons of Ishmael, along with all his family.
Once he finished his talk with ‘em, he turned to Sam, sayin’: You’re blessed, and so is your kin; you’ll get land just like your brother Nephi. Your seed will be counted with his, and you’ll be just like your brother, with your kin blessed all your days.
Well, after my old man Lehi spoke to all his household, with the good feelings in his heart and the Spirit of the Lord fillin' him up, he grew old. And it came to pass that he passed away and was laid to rest.
A few days later, Laman and Lemuel, along with the sons of Ishmael, got real riled up at me ‘cause of the Lord’s admonitions.
For I, Nephi, felt the need to speak to ‘em ‘cause of His word; I’d already said a heap to ‘em, along with my father before his time was up; most of that’s scribbled on my other plates; a more detailed history is written down on them.
And on these plates, I’m penning down the things of my soul, and plenty of scriptures that are carved on the brass plates. My soul takes joy in the scriptures, and I ponder on ‘em, wranglin’ ‘em out for the benefit of my children.
You see, my heart finds joy in the things of the Lord; it’s always rollin’ over the sights and sounds I’ve come across.
Yet here I am, despite the Lord’s great goodness, showin’ me His marvelous works, my heart can’t help but cry: Oh, wretched man that I am! My heart’s heavy ‘cause of my flesh; my soul grieves ‘cause of my wrongdoings.
I’m surrounded by temptations and sins that just keep pestering me.
When I wanna be cheerful, my heart sighs ‘cause of my errors; still, I know in whom I put my trust.
My God’s been my stronghold; He’s led me through trials out in the wilderness; and kept me safe on the rough waters of the deep blue.
He filled me right up with His love, ‘til it almost consumed my very bones.
He’s twisted up my enemies ‘til they tremble like leaves before me.
Look here, He’s heard my cries in the daylight, and he gave me knowledge through visions in the dark.
And in the daylight, I've stood bold in mighty prayers to Him; yep, I’ve sent my voice up high, and angels came down to help me out.
And on the wings of His Spirit, He’s carried me to high peaks. My eyes have seen great wonders, too great for a mere mortal to put down on paper; so I’ve been told not to write ‘em.
So now, if I’ve laid eyes on such extraordinary sights, if the Lord has looked down upon mankind with such mercy, why should my heart weep and my soul wallow in sorrow, and let my flesh wither away, and my strength weaken ‘cause of my trials?
And why should I give in to sin just ‘cause of my flesh? Why let temptations take root in my heart to bust up my peace and torment my soul? Why am I mad at my enemies?
Wake up, my soul! Quit wallowin' in sin. Rejoice, oh my heart, and don’t ya let the enemy of my soul take hold.
Don’t be angry again at my enemies. Don’t let my strength wane from my troubles.
Rejoice, oh my heart, and cry out to the Lord, sayin’: Oh Lord, I’ll sing Your praises forever; yes, my soul will find joy in You, my God, and the rock of my salvation.
Oh Lord, will You save my soul? Will You pull me outta the grip of my enemies? Will You help me tremble at the sight of sin?
May the gates of hell stay shut tight before me, ‘cause my heart is broken and my spirit is humble! Oh Lord, don’t you close the gates of Your righteousness before me, so I can walk this low valley road and be strict along the straight path!
Oh Lord, wrap me in Your robe of righteousness! Oh Lord, make a way for me to escape from my foes! Make my path straight, and don’t throw any obstacles in my way—but rather clear my road and keep my enemy's path blocked.
Oh Lord, I’ve put my trust in You, and that won’t change. I won’t lean on the arm of flesh; for I know there's a curse for those who do. Yeah, cursed are those who trust in man or make flesh their stronghold.
Yeah, I know that God’ll give to the one who asks. Oh yes, my God will bestow upon me if I ask rightly; so I’m liftin’ up my voice to You; yeah, I’ll cry out to You, my God, the rock of my righteousness. Look here, my voice will always rise up to You, my rock and my everlasting God. Amen.
