Well now, listen here, I, Nephi, was hollerin' out to the Good Lord, 'cause my brothers were just downright angry.  
But shoot, their fury only grew fiercer, and they aimed to take my very life.  
They started bellyachin' about me, sayin’: Our younger brother thinks he’s fit to boss us around; and we’ve been through a heap of trouble 'cause of him; so let’s just take care of him, so we don’t gotta suffer from his talkin'. We ain't havin' him as our leader; it oughta be us, the older kinfolk, who steer this wagon.  
Now, I ain't gonna jot down all the complaints they had against me, but it’s enough to say they wanted me gone.  
Then the Lord warned me that I, Nephi, ought to skedaddle away from them and head out into the wilds, takin' anyone who wanted to ride along with me.  
So, I rounded up my kin, Zoram and his bunch, my big brother Sam and his family, and my younger brothers Jacob and Joseph, along with my sisters, and all who wanted to ride along. Those who chose to come were folks who believed in the Lord’s warnings and visions, so they listened to my calls.  
We packed up our tents and all we could carry, and we traipsed through the wilderness for many a day. After a good stretch of wanderin’, we set up camp.  
My folks decided the place oughta be called Nephi, so Nephi it was.  
And all who followed me took it upon themselves to call ‘em the people of Nephi.  
We made sure to keep the laws, the rules, and the commandments from the Good Lord, stickin’ to the law of Moses in all respects.  
The Lord was at our side, and we prospered mighty fine; we planted seeds and reaped a bountiful harvest. We even started raisin’ flocks, herds, and all sorts of critters.  
And I, Nephi, brought the records carved on brass plates, along with the ball, or compass, that the Good Lord had given my pa, just like the scrolls said.  
Soon enough, we began to thrive, multiplyin' in the land.  
I took up Laban's sword and fashioned a whole bunch of swords myself, just in case them folks now known as Lamanites decided to come after us; I knew full well how much they despised me and my kin.  
I taught my people how to build all sorts of structures and work with wood, iron, copper, brass, steel, gold, silver, and precious gems, all of which we had plenty of.  
I set about buildin’ a temple, modelin’ it kinda like Solomon's, though we were short on fancy materials, so it didn't quite match up. But the way it was built sure looked fine.  
I made sure my folks put their shoulder to the wheel and worked hard with their hands.  
They wanted me to be their king, but I, Nephi, reckoned they should have no king; still, I did what I could for 'em.  
Turns out, the Good Lord’s words about me bein’ their leader and teacher came true. I was their ruler and teacher as per the Lord’s commands, until they plotted against my life.  
Thus, the word of the Lord came true, sayin’ that since they wouldn’t listen to my words, they’d be cut off from His presence. And sure enough, they were.  
The Lord made a curse fall upon 'em, a real rough one, due to their wrongdoings. Their hearts grew hard as rock against Him, so the Lord covered their fair skin with a mantle of darkness, so they wouldn't tempt my folks.  
And the Lord God said: I’ll make them loathsome to your folks, unless they turn from their wicked ways.  
Cursed be the offspring of anyone who mixes with 'em; they’ll get the same curse. The Lord said it, and it came to pass.  
Due to their curse, they became idle and mischief-makers, huntin' for all kinds of predators in the wilderness.  
The Lord God told me: They’ll be a scourge to your people, to jolt ‘em into rememberin’ Me; and if they don’t remember Me or listen to My words, they’ll be scourged to their end.  
So I, Nephi, set apart Jacob and Joseph to be priests and teachers over my people’s land.  
And we went about livin’ a happy life.  
And lo and behold, thirty years had slipped by since we left Jerusalem.  
I, Nephi, had kept track of all the happenings on my plates as far as we had come along.  
Then the Lord God told me: Make some new plates; you’ll carve out good things on 'em for the sake of your people.  
So, I, Nephi, outta respect for the Lord’s commandments, went ahead and made these plates where I wrote these things down.  
And I carved out what pleases God. If my folks are fond of God’s things, they oughta like my carvings on these plates.  
And if my folks are itchin’ to know more details 'bout our history, they best go rummagin’ through my other plates.  
And it's enough to say that forty years rolled by, and we'd already been through wars and squabbles with our brethren.
