Well now, listen up, folks, for I got a tale to tell 'bout Jacob, the brother of Nephi, who laid down some fine words to the good folks of Nephi:
Y’all reckon I’m here to lend an ear, ‘cause I’m Jacob, called by the Big Man upstairs, ordained in a way that’s pure and righteous, and my brother Nephi, the one you folks see as your king or guardian, helped me get all set up. So, let it be known, I’ve had a whole heap to say to ya.
Now, I’m fixin’ to speak again, ‘cause I care mighty much 'bout your hearts and souls. I reckon my worry runs deep for y’all, and I reckon you know it too. I’ve worked hard to guide ya, teachin’ you the wise words of my pa, talkin’ ’bout all the things penned down since the dawn of time.
And here’s the skinny: I wanna share some wisdom 'bout what’s goin’ on now and what might come down the trail. So, I’ll read y’all the words of Isaiah, ‘cause my brother’s been itchin’ for me to share ‘em. I’m talkin’ so you can learn and give glory to your God.
Now, these here words are meant for all the folks of Israel, and since you’re kin to that bunch, they fit you like a glove. There’s plenty Isaiah had to say that rings true for you, ‘cause y’all are the house of Israel.
So, hear this: The Lord Almighty says, “I’m gonna reach out my hand to the Gentiles and raise my banner for the people; they’ll scoop up your young’uns in their arms, and your gals will be hoisted on their shoulders.”
And kings will be like daddies to ya, and queens like mommas; they’ll bow down low, faces to the dirt, lickin’ up the dust off your boots, and you’ll know I’m the Lord—those waitin’ on me won’t be let down.
Now, I, Jacob, wanna talk 'bout these mighty words. See, the Lord’s shown me that them folks back in Jerusalem, where we hailed from, have been struck down and taken captive.
But don’t you fret, ‘cause the Lord’s revealed they’ll find their way back. He also said the Holy One of Israel's gonna show Himself in the flesh, and once He does, they'll whip Him and nail Him to a tree, just like that angel told me.
Once they harden their hearts and stiffen their necks against the Holy One, mark my words, the judgments from Him will roll in. The day’s comin’ when they’ll get hit hard and hurtin’.
So, after they’ve skedaddled around, it was said by the angel that many will suffer in the flesh but won’t be allowed to go under due to the faithful prayin’; they’ll be scattered, beaten down, and hated; still, the Lord’s gonna show ‘em mercy so they can recognize their Redeemer and be gathered back to the land they can call their own.
And bless them Gentiles, the ones the prophet talked about; if they repent and don’t take up arms against Zion or join that wicked ol’ church, they’ll find salvation, ‘cause the Lord will keep His promises made to His children; that’s why the prophet wrote this down.
So, them folks who go against Zion and the covenant kin of the Lord? They’re gonna eat the dust off your boots, and the people of the Lord won’t be embarrassed. These folks are the ones waitin’ on Him; they’re still waitin’ on the Messiah's return.
And just like the prophet prophesied, the Messiah’s gonna come again, reclaiming His people; He’ll show His power and glory, bringin’ ruin to their foes when that day comes, and anyone who believes in Him won’t be destroyed.
But those who turn their backs on Him? They’ll face destruction by fire, storms, quakes, bloodshed, sickness, and hunger. They’ll know that the Lord is the God, the Holy One of Israel.
Now, can you take a prize from the strong, or free up a captive that’s rightly bound?
But here’s what the Lord says: Even the mighty captives will be freed, and the prey from the fearsome will be let go; for the Mighty God will deliver His covenant folks. Thus says the Lord: “I’m gonna battle them that battle you—”
And I’ll feed ‘em who oppress you with their own flesh, and they'll be drunk on their own blood like fine wine; all people’ll know that I, the Lord, am your Savior and Redeemer, the Mighty One of Jacob.
