Well now, there was just no more fussin' ‘round in all the land of Zarahemla, with all them folks belongin' to King Benjamin, so he enjoyed himself some good ol' peace for the rest of his days.
And then it turned out he had three boys; called 'em Mosiah, Helorum, and Helaman. He made sure they learned all that fancy talk from their kin, so they could be smart fellas; and so they could know 'bout all them prophecies their daddies done told ‘em that the Lord had laid on their hearts.
And he also filled 'em in on them records carved on them brass plates, sayin': "Listen up, boys! You gotta remember that if it weren't for these plates with all these records and commandments, we’d be stuck in the dark, clueless about God’s mysteries, even right now.”
‘Cause I tell ya, it wouldn’t have been possible for our daddy, Lehi, to keep all that straight to teach his kids without them plates helpin' him out; ‘cause he learned how to talk the Egyptian way, so he could read them engravings and pass ‘em on, and they could teach their own young’uns, keepin’ God’s commandments goin’ even to this day.
I’m tellin’ you, my boys, if it weren't for this stuff that God’s hand preserved for us to read and get wise on His mysteries and keepin’ His commandments in our sight, even our papas would’ve stumbled in doubt, and we’d be just like our kin, the Lamanites, who don’t know squat about these things or don't even believe ‘em when they’re told, ‘cause of the old traditions from their papas that just ain’t right.
Oh, my boys, I want y’all to hold on to these words as the gospel truth, and also remember them records are legit. And looky here, we got the plates of Nephi, which hold the tales and sayings of our daddies since they hightailed it outta Jerusalem till now, and they’re indeed true; we can know ‘em for certain ‘cause we got 'em right in front of us.
Now listen here, my boys, I’m hopin' y’all will dig into those diligently, so you can benefit from ‘em; and I want ya to keep God’s commandments so y’all can thrive in the land like the good Lord promised our daddies.
And there were many more lessons King Benjamin taught his boys that ain’t written down in this here book.
Next thing ya know, after King Benjamin finished teachin’ up his boys, he was gettin’ on in years, and he realized it was high time to go on home like all folks do; so he figured he’d better hand off the kingdom to one of his boys.
So, he had Mosiah come on up to him; and here’s what he said: "Son, I want you to spread the word all over this land with all these folks, or the folks of Zarahemla, and the people of Mosiah livin' here, so they can all come together; ‘cause come tomorrow, I’ll be tellin’ my people right from my own mouth that you’re the king and a ruler over these folks the Lord our God has blessed us with."
And on top of that, I’m gonna give this people a name, so they can stand out from all them others the Lord God brought outta Jerusalem; and I'm doin' it ‘cause they’ve been a good bunch, keepin’ the Lord’s commandments.
And I’m givin’ ‘em a name that ain't never gonna get wiped out, unless they run afoul of the rules.
Yep, and I’ll tell ya this too, if this mighty favored people of the Lord go astray and turn into a wicked and unfaithful bunch, the Lord's gonna turn ‘em loose, and they’ll end up weak like their kin; and He won’t be keepin’ ‘em safe with His unmatched power like He’s done for our daddies.
‘Cause I’m here to tell ya, if He hadn’t reached out to preserve our daddies, they surely would’ve fell into the hands of them Lamanites, and been victims of their hate.
And it came to pass that after King Benjamin finished all this talkin’ to his boy, he entrusted him with all the kingdom’s goin-ons.
And he also put him in charge of the records that were carved on them brass plates; and them plates of Nephi too; and don’t forget the sword of Laban, and the seer stone that guided our daddies through the wilds, which was set up by the Lord’s own hand so they could be led, each according to how much attention and effort they put into it.
So, when they weren’t faithful, they didn’t get no progress on their journey, but instead, they got pushed back and ticked off God; and then they faced hunger and hard times to remind ‘em of their duties.
And so, it came to pass that Mosiah went and did just what his daddy told him, and he proclaimed to all the folks in the land of Zarahemla to gather together, so they could head up to the temple and hear the words his daddy had for ‘em.
