Well, I'll tell ya, it was time for us to get ourselves together and start fixin' up that kingdom again, and we settled down on the land real nice-like. I went and had folks make all kinds of weapons so we'd be ready whenever them Lamanites decided to come mess with us again.
So, I got some good folks posted around the land so those sneaky Lamanites wouldn't catch us off guard and wipe us out; that way, I kept my people and our livestock safe from all them no-good enemies.
Then, wouldn't ya know it, we got to enjoy the land of our ancestors for a good long stretch—about twenty-two years or so.
I made sure the men were plowin' the fields and growin' all kinds of grains and fruits, bless their hearts.
And I got the women busy spinnin', workin' hard, makin' fine linens and all sorts of clothin' to keep us covered up; we were livin' the good life and had ourselves some peaceful times for twenty-two years straight.
But then old King Laman kicked the bucket and his boy took over. Now, that young'un started rilin' up his folks, gettin' 'em all worked up against us; so they got ready for war, lookin' to come at us with all they had.
But I’d sent my scouts all 'round the Shemlon area to see what them Lamanites were up to—just tryin' to keep an eye out so they couldn't surprise us and do us harm.
And just like that, they came stormin' up from the north of Shilom, all armed to the teeth with bows, arrows, swords, and even those fancy curved blades. They were so wild, their heads were shaved clean and just about all they had on was a leather belt wrapped 'round their middle.
I made sure to tuck away the women and young 'uns in the wilderness. And all the old-timers who could still hold a weapon, along with the younger men able to fight, I had ‘em gather together to face off against those Lamanites; lined 'em up according to their ages.
So we marched off to take on the Lamanites, and I, old as I was, didn’t sit back—I was right there with ‘em. We charged into battle leanin' on the strength of the Lord.
Now, them Lamanites didn’t know nothin' 'bout the Lord or His strength, so they were countin’ on their own muscle. And I reckon they were strong enough when it came to bein' men.
But let me tell ya, they were one wild and ferocious bunch, thirsty for blood, all 'cause they believed the tales passed down from their folks—like how they got booted out of Jerusalem 'cause of their forefathers’ wrongdoings, and how their brothers did 'em wrong in the desert, not to mention bein' mistreated while crossin' the ocean.
And they thought they were wronged in the land where they first settled after the big water splash, all 'cause Nephi was just keepin' the commandments better than them; that boy caught the Lord's favor, and the big guy listened to his prayin’ and led ‘em on their journey in the wilderness.
Well, his brothers were hot under the collar 'cause they didn't get what the Lord was up to, and they were fussin' at him on the boat 'cause their hearts turned to stone against the Lord.
Then when they finally hit that promised land, they got mad again sayin' Nephi took control away from 'em, and they wanted him dead.
And I’ll tell ya, they was furious when he took off into the wilderness like the Lord told him to, all while snatching up them brass plates—they said he was robbin’ 'em.
So them folks have been teachin' their young’uns to hate Nephi and his kin, tellin’ ‘em it’s okay to murder and plunder, doin' all they can to wipe ‘em out; that’s why they keep a fiery hate for the children of Nephi.
And you best believe that crafty ol' King Laman used his slick talk and empty promises to pull one over on me, lettin' me bring my people into this land just so they could be wiped out; it’s been rough on us for many years now.
Now here I am, Zeniff, after spillin’ all this to my people 'bout the Lamanites, I got 'em riled up to fight with everything they had, puttin' their faith in the Lord; and so we squared off with 'em, face-to-face.
We managed to push 'em clear outta our land again, and we took 'em down real good, enough that we couldn't even count 'em all.
Eventually, we made our way back home and my folks got to tending their flocks and workin’ the fields again.
And now, bein' an old-timer, I handed over the kingdom to one of my boys; so I’ll leave it at that. May the Lord look after my people. Amen.
