Well, let me tell ya, King Noah’s a real piece of work—he’s livin’ it up with his wives and side gals, throwin’ wild parties and such. Abinadi steps up, sayin’ the folks are fixin’ to be taken captive, and now King Noah's lookin' to take him out.
So, here’s how it went down: Zeniff handed over the kingdom to Noah, his boy, and Noah took over, but he sure didn’t follow in his daddy’s footsteps. 
Now, lemme tell ya, this fella didn’t keep God’s commandments, instead, he just chased after what his heart wanted. Had himself a whole mess of wives and concubines, and led his folks right down the path of sin and all sorts of nasty stuff ‘fore the Lord. Heck, they were gettin’ into all kinds of trouble and wickedness.
Then, he slapped a tax on 'em, takin' one-fifth of everything they had—money, silver, copper, brass, iron, and even the good ol’ livestock and grain.
He used all that cash to keep himself and all his womenfolk livin’ large, along with his priests and their women too; he really turned the whole kingdom upside down.
He kicked out all the priests his daddy had appointed, and put in some new ones who were puffed up with pride.
Yep, those new priests were just sittin’ back bein’ lazy, worshippin’ idols, and forcin’ the folks to pay all them taxes King Noah laid down; and the people were workin’ their tails off just to keep up that mess.
And wouldn’t ya know it, they started worshippin’ idols ‘cause the king and his priests were whisperin’ all them sweet nothings in their ears, makin' ‘em feel good.
Now, King Noah went ahead and built himself some fancy buildings that were just huge and fancy; decked 'em out with all kinds of fine wood and glittery things like gold, silver, and all that precious junk.
He didn’t stop there, oh no, he had himself a mighty fine palace built, complete with a throne right in the middle, all made of the best wood and decked out in gold and silver and precious things too.
And he made sure his workers were doin’ all kinds of fancy designs within the temple walls, usin’ fine wood, copper, and brass.
The high priests had their own special seats, high above the rest, adorned with pure gold; he even had a railing put up so they could lean back while they spewed their lies to the folks.
Then he built a tall tower real close to the temple; so high that he could just climb up top and look out over Shilom and Shemlon, where the Lamanites were hangin’ out, and see all around like he was king of the world.
King Noah didn’t stop there, he made more buildings in Shilom and even put up a giant tower on a hill just north of that land, where the kids of Nephi used to play before they took off; all this with the riches he got from taxin’ his people.
He got himself real attached to them riches, spendin’ all his time livin’ it up with his wives and concubines, same as his priests who spent their time with ladies of the night.
Then he started plantin’ vineyards all over the place and built wine presses, makin’ a whole lotta wine; turned into quite the drinker he did, along with his people.
But uh-oh, the Lamanites started comin’ in small groups, takin’ out folks in the fields and while they were tendin' their herds.
King Noah got all riled up and sent out guards to keep ‘em away, but he didn’t send enough, so the Lamanites came in and did some killin’, stealin’ a whole bunch of their livestock too; those Lamanites were puttin’ the hurt on 'em, that’s for sure.
King Noah sent his army after ‘em, and they pushed ‘em back this time, so they came back all happy with their spoils.
But because of that little victory, they got all puffed up with pride, braggin’ ‘bout how their fifty could take down thousands of Lamanites; they were boastin’ and thrivin’ off the bloodshed, and that’s the kinda king and priests they had leadin’ ‘em.
Then there was this fella named Abinadi, and he went among ‘em, prophesyin’ and sayin’—listen up, folks, the Lord’s not pleased, He sees all your wicked ways and if y’all don’t change your tune, you’re gonna find out what His anger looks like.
And if y’all ain’t repentin’ and turnin’ back to God, well, I’m gonna hand you right over to your enemies; you’ll end up in bondage and sufferin’ at their hands.
But they’re gonna know real quick that I’m the Lord, their God, a jealous kinda God, takin’ care of business with my people’s messes.
Y’all better turn it around and got back to the Lord, or you’re gonna be in bondage, and nobody’s comin’ to save you ‘cept the Almighty.
And let me tell ya, when they start cryin' out to me, I ain’t gonna be quick to hear ‘em; I might just let 'em get themselves beat up by their enemies for a bit.
Unless they start repentin’ in sackcloth and ashes, shoutin’ out to the Lord, I won’t be listenin’ to their prayers or gettin’ them out of their struggles; that’s what the Lord’s givin’ me to say.
Now, after Abinadi laid it all out on ‘em, they got real mad and tried to off him; but the Lord pulled him outta that mess.
When King Noah heard what Abinadi was sayin’, he got mad too; he was all like, Who’s this Abinadi think he is to judge me and my folks, or who’s the Lord to bring some big ol’ trouble on my people?
I’m tellin’ ya, get that Abinadi over here so I can take care of him, ‘cause he’s just stirrin’ up trouble and causin’ my people to fight among themselves; can’t have that, I’m gonna off him.
Now, the folks were so blinded by his words that they turned their hearts hard against what Abinadi said, and from that point on, they tried to catch him. King Noah, too, hardened his heart at the Lord’s word and didn’t repent from all his evildoings.
