Well, after a couple o’ years, ol' Abinadi showed up among 'em wearin’ a disguise, and they didn’t even recognize him. He started spoutin’ off about what the Lord told him, sayin’: "Abinadi, go tell this hard-hearted crowd what's up, ‘cause they ain't listened to me none; they ain’t turned from their wicked ways; so I’m fixin' to bring my wrath down on 'em, yep, real fierce-like ‘bout their sins and all the nasty stuff they do."
Well, bless their hearts, this here generation's in for a world of hurt! The Lord told me: "Raise your hand an’ prophesy, sayin’, 'Listen up, ‘cause this bunch here is gonna end up in bondage ‘cause of their wickedness, get slapped upside the head, driven by men, and killed; the buzzards and dogs, and even the wild critters are gonna feast on their flesh.”
And let me tell ya, King Noah’s life’s gonna be worth less than an ol’ rag in a hot furnace; he’s gonna know I’m the Lord.
Now, I’m ‘bout to lay some heavy stuff on this people, folks; I’m talkin’ famine and disease, and they’re gonna be howlin’ all day long.
Yup, I’m gonna strap ‘em down with heavy burdens, and they’ll be pushed around like a dumb mule.
Oh, and here’s the kicker—I’m sendin’ hail down on ‘em, and they’ll get smacked from the east wind too. Bugs are gonna chew up their crops like they ain't got a chance.
And they’ll be hit with a serious plague—and all this is comin’ ‘cause of their wickedness and filth.
And if they don’t turn their ways ‘round, I swear I’ll wipe ‘em off the earth; but they’ll leave behind a record, and I’ll make sure it’s kept safe for other nations that take this land; yeah, I’ll do that so folks can know just how bad this crowd has been. Abinadi had a lot to say against ‘em.
So, sure enough, they got madder than a hornet at him; they tied him up and dragged him before the king, all like: “Look here, we got a fella who’s been prophesyin’ bad news ‘bout your people, sayin’ God’s gonna wipe 'em out.”
And he’s talkin’ smack ‘bout your life too, sayin’ it’s gonna be just like a garment in a furnace of fire.
And he also said you’re gonna be like a dry stalk in a field, just trampled by animals and walked on, you see.
And again, he said you’ll be like a thistle blossom that gets blown away by the wind when it’s ripe, and he’s actin’ like the Lord said all this. He says it’s all comin’ for ya unless you turn around ‘cause of your sins.
Now, O king, what kinda wickedness have ya done, or what kinda sins have your folks committed, that we gotta get judged by God or this man here?
And now, O king, listen here, we ain't done nothin’ wrong, and you, O king, haven’t sinned; so this fella’s just lying about ya, and he’s prophesyin’ for nothin’.
Looky here, we’re strong, we ain’t gonna go into bondage or get caught by the enemy; and you’ve done real well in the land, and you’ll keep on doin’ good.
Here’s the man, so we’re handin’ him over to you; do what ya think is right.
Well, next thing you know, King Noah had ol' Abinadi tossed in prison; and he called for his priests to gather ‘round so he could figure out what to do with him.
Then they said to the king: “Bring him here so we can grill him;” and the king ordered him brought before ‘em.
So they started grillin’ him, hopin’ to catch him off guard so they could accuse him; but he stood up to ‘em right quick, answered back without flinchin’, left ‘em all shocked, ‘cause he handled their questions just fine and really flustered ‘em.
Then one of ‘em piped up and asked him: “What do them words mean that are written, ones our daddies taught us, sayin’:
How lovely on the hills are the feet of the one bringin’ good news, shoutin’ peace, bringin’ tidings of joy, bringin’ salvation, sayin’ to Zion, ‘Your God’s in charge’?
Your lookout men are gonna raise their voices; they’ll sing together, for they’ll see eye to eye when the Lord brings Zion back.
Get ready to rejoice; sing out, you rundown spots in Jerusalem; ‘cause the Lord’s comforted His folks, He’s redeemed Jerusalem.
The Lord’s flexed His holy arm in front of all the nations, and everybody on this earth’s gonna see our God’s salvation?
And Abinadi replied to 'em: “Well, are y’all the priests, actin’ like you’re teachin’ this people and thinkin’ you understand prophesyin’, yet ya wanna know from me what all them things mean?
I tell ya, shame on you for twistin’ the Lord’s ways! If you really got this stuff, you sure ain't taught it; you’ve gone and muddied the Lord’s ways.
You ain’t put your hearts into understandin’; so ya ain't wise. So what’s your teaching for these folks?
And they replied: “We teach the law of Moses.”
And again he asked 'em: “If you’re all about the law of Moses, why ain't ya keepin’ it? Why y’all settlin’ for money bags? Why y’all over here messin’ with whores and spendin’ your energy on ‘em, makin’ this people sin, givin’ the Lord a reason to send me to prophesy against ‘em, heck, a big ol’ evil against ‘em?
Don't y’all know I’m tellin’ the truth? Yeah, you know I’m spittin’ facts; and you oughta be shakin’ in your boots ‘fore God.
And it’s gonna happen that you’ll get hit for your sins, ‘cause you said you teach the law of Moses. And what you know ‘bout the law of Moses? Does salvation come from it? What do ya say?
And they answered, sayin’ that salvation did indeed come by the law of Moses.
But now Abinadi told ‘em: “I know if y’all keep God’s commandments, you’ll be saved; yeah, if ya keep the commandments the Lord gave to Moses on Mount Sinai, sayin’:
I’m the Lord your God, who brought ya outta Egypt, outta that place of bondage.
You ain't gonna have no other gods before me.
Don't you be makin' any graven images, or likenesses of anythin' up in the heavens, or on the earth beneath.
Now Abinadi asked ‘em, “Y’all done all this? I say to ya, Nope, you sure haven’t. And have ya taught this people to do all these things? I tell ya, Nope, you haven’t.”
