Well now, when the king heard what Abinadi had to say, he called his priests and said, "Y’all get this fella outta here and take care of him, 'cause we ain't got no business with a madman like him."
So them priests stepped on up, tryin’ to grab hold of him, but he stood his ground and said to ‘em:
“Don’t you dare touch me, 'cause God’s gonna bring down some wrath on you if you do. I ain't shared nothin' ‘cept what the Lord told me to say, and I ain’t told you the things you asked about; so God ain't gonna let you take me out right now.”
“I gotta do what the Lord said, and ‘cause I’ve told ya the truth, y’all are fit to be mad at me. And once more, ‘cause I’ve shared the words of God, you've gone and judged me as if I’m off my rocker.”
Well, after Abinadi finished up with those words, the folks from king Noah were too scared to lay a finger on him, 'cause the Spirit of the Lord was all over him, and his face was glowin’ bright like Moses did while chattin’ with the Lord up on that mountain.
And he spoke with some serious power and authority from God; and he kept on talkin’, sayin’:
“Y’all see you ain't got what it takes to take me down, so I’m gonna wrap up what I gotta say. Yup, I can tell my words are hittin' ya right in the feels 'cause I’m just tellin’ ya straight about your wrongdoings.”
“Sure enough, my words are fillin’ ya up with wonder and anger.”
“But I’m gonna finish what I started; after that, it don’t matter where I end up, as long as I’m saved.”
“But I’ll tell you this much, how y’all treat me from here on out’s gonna be a sign of the things yet to come.”
“And now I’m gonna read ya the rest of God’s commandments, ‘cause I can see they ain't in your hearts; seems like y’all been studyin’ and teachin' wickedness most of your lives.”
“So remember, I told ya, 'Thou shalt not make any graven images or likenesses of anything up in heaven, down here on earth, or under the water.”
“And again, 'Thou shalt not bow down to ‘em nor serve ‘em; ‘cause I, the Lord your God, am a jealous God, visitin’ the iniquities of the fathers upon the kids, right down to the third and fourth generations of folks who hate me;”
“And I show mercy to thousands who love me and keep my commandments.”
“You ain’t supposed to take the Lord’s name in vain, 'cause He won’t let that slide.”
“Remember the sabbath day and keep it holy.”
“You got six days to put your nose to the grindstone and do your work;”
“But on the seventh day, the sabbath for the Lord your God, you best not do a lick of work—neither you, nor your kids, nor your servants, nor your critters, nor the strangers hangin’ around your place;”
“For in six days the Lord made the heavens and the earth, the sea, and everything in ‘em; that’s why the Lord blessed the sabbath and made it holy.”
“Show some respect for your momma and daddy, so you can live long in the land the Lord your God’s givin’ ya.”
“Don’t go killin’ nobody.”
“Don’t commit adultery. And for heaven’s sake, don’t steal.”
“You ain’t supposed to bear false witness against your neighbor.”
“Don’t be coveting your neighbor’s house, or his wife, or any of his servants or animals, or anything that’s his.”
And it came to pass that once Abinadi wrapped up these sayings, he asked ‘em: “Have y’all taught this people to do all these things and keep these commandments?”
I tell ya, “Nope, you ain't; ‘cause if you had, the Lord wouldn’t have needed me to come say this kinda bad news about y’all.”
“Now you’re claimin’ that salvation comes from the law of Moses. But I’m tellin’ ya it’s good for now, but there’ll come a time when keepin’ that law ain’t necessary no more.”
“Also, I’m tellin’ ya that salvation don’t come just from the law alone; if it weren’t for the atonement God Himself’s gonna make for His people’s sins, they’d be doomed, law or no law.”
“Now I reckon it was right and proper for there to be a law for the children of Israel, even a strict one; they were a stubborn bunch, quick to do wrong but slow to remember the Lord their God;”
“That’s why there was a law for ‘em, you betcha—a law of doin’ and ordinances, a law they were supposed to follow every single day to help 'em remember God and what they owed Him.”
“But listen here, I’m sayin’ all this was just a foreshadowing of things to come.”
“And now, did they really get the law? I reckon not, 'cause their hearts were hard; they couldn’t see that no one could be saved ‘cept through God’s redemption.”
“Sure enough, didn’t Moses prophesy to ‘em ‘bout the Messiah comin’, and how God would redeem His folks? Yeah, and all the prophets since the world began—they ain't spoken less or more about this stuff?”
“Didn’t they say that God Himself would come down among us humans, take on the form of a man, and do mighty deeds across the earth?”
“Yeah, and didn’t they say He’d also make the resurrection happen and that He, Himself, would be oppressed and afflicted?”
