Well now, Isaiah’s sayin' somethin’ real deep here—’bout that Messiah and all the hard times He’s gonna go through. Ain't no doubt, He’s gonna put Himself up as a sacrifice for sin and pray for ‘em who done wrong—ya might wanna check out Isaiah 53, if ya’re curious. This here’s ‘round 148 B.C. y’all.
Yep, I reckon Isaiah’s wonderin’: Who’s believed what we been sayin’, huh? And who’s gonna see the might of the Lord laid out for ‘em?
He’s gonna sprout up like a lil’ plant, fresh outta dry dirt; ain’t nothin’ too fancy about Him, no good looks to speak of; and when we lay eyes on Him, we ain’t gonna see nothin' to make us wanna follow Him.
Folks just can’t stand Him, turnin' their backs; He’s a fella filled with sorrow and knows grief real well; we just sorta pulled away from Him, not givin' Him the credit He deserves.
He’s bearin’ our sadness and haul’n our heartaches; still, we thought He was just givin’ what He got to the Almighty, dealin’ with all kinds of troubles.
But He took the beatin’ for what we’ve done wrong, got bruised for our mess-ups; the pain we shoulda felt was on Him, and with them stripes, we’re brought back together.
We all like sheep wanderin’ off, doin’ our own thing; and the Lord laid all our mess-up on Him.
He’s been put through the wringer, but He didn’t even complain; like a lamb headin’ to the butcher, He was quiet as a mouse, keepin’ His mouth shut.
They snatched Him up from jail and judgment; who’s gonna tell His family story? 'Cause He was cut off from all livin’ folks, stricken for what my people did wrong.
He ended up buried with the bad folks, and rich folks saw his grave too; but He didn’t do nothin' wrong, and there was no trickery in His words.
Yet the Lord didn’t mind givin' Him a hard time; made Him feel down when He’s offerin’ His soul for sin; He’ll get to see His children, live long, and the Lord’s good pleasure’s gonna flourish in His hands.
He’ll see the hard work of His soul and be satisfied; through His knowin’, my righteous servant’s gonna set many straight; He’s gonna shoulder their wrongdoings.
So I’m fixin’ to give Him His share with the mighty, and He’ll split the rewards with the strong; ‘cause He laid His life down; He was numbered with the wrongdoers, takin’ on the sins of so many, and prayin’ for the ones who strayed.
