Well now, Abinadi’s a-sayin’ to 'em: I reckon y’all oughta understand that God himself is fixin’ to come down amongst folks and redeem his people.
And since He’s dweller in the flesh, He gonna be called the Son of God, and He’s puttin' that flesh under the Father’s will, bein’ the Father and the Son all at once—
The Father 'cause he was brought into this world by the power of God; and the Son 'cause of that flesh; thus makin’ Him both Father and Son—
And they’s one God, yep, the very Eternal Father of heaven and earth.
So here it is, that flesh bein’ all subject to the Spirit, or the Son to the Father, bein’ one God, He faces temptation, but don’t give in, instead He lets Himself be laughed at, beaten, kicked out, and shunned by his own folks.
And after all that, after performin’ a heap of mighty miracles 'round them people, He’s gonna be led on, just like Isaiah said, like a sheep that don’t say a word in front of them shearers, so He didn’t open His mouth.
Yep, just so, He gonna be led, crucified, and killed, with the flesh givin’ in to death, the will of the Son drownin’ in the Father’s will.
And so God breaks the chains of death, comin’ out on top of it; grantin’ the Son the power to step in for folks like us—
After He’s gone up to heaven, full of mercy; bein' packed with compassion for the likes of us folks; standin’ between us and justice; breakin’ death’s grip, takin’ on our wrongs and our sins, savin’ us, and meetin’ justice’s demands.
And now I’m a-askin’ y’all, who gonna declare His lineage? Look here, I’m tellin’ ya, that when He lays down His life for our sins, He gonna see His kin. Now, what y’all reckon about that? And who gonna be His kin?
I’m a-tellin’ ya, that anyone who’s listened to the words of the prophets, yeah, all them holy ones talkin' ‘bout the Lord comin’—I’m sayin’ to ya, all them who listened and believed that the Lord would save His people, and who looked forward to that day for forgivin’ their sins, thems is His kin, or they’re the heirs of God’s kingdom.
‘Cause these are the ones whose sins He took on; these are the ones for whom He died to save ‘em from their wrongs. Now then, ain’t they His kin?
Yeah, and ain’t the prophets, every last one who opened their mouth to prophesy, who didn’t fall into sin, I mean all them holy prophets from the world’s got goin’? I’m a-tellin’ ya, they is His kin.
And these folks are the ones who spread peace, who brought good news ‘bout good things, who spread salvation; and told Zion: Your God’s in charge!
Oh, how purty upon the mountains were their feet!
And again, how purty upon the mountains are the feet of them still spreadin’ peace!
And again, how purty upon them mountains are the feet of them who gonna spread peace from now on and forever more!
And looky here, I’m sayin’ to ya, this ain’t all. Oh, how purty upon the mountains are the feet of him that brings good news, that’s the founder of peace, yeah, even the Lord who has saved His folks; yeah, Him who has given salvation to His people;
‘Cause if it weren’t for the redemption He’s done for His people, which was set up from the very start, I’m tellin’ ya, if it weren’t for that, all humanity would be done for.
But look yonder, the chains of death gonna be broken, and the Son gonna reign, and He got power over the dead; so, He gonna make sure the resurrection happens.
And there’s gonna be a resurrection, a first resurrection; yep, even a resurrection of them who’ve been, and who are, and who’s gonna be, right up to the resurrection of Christ—for that’s what He’s gonna be called.
And now, all the prophets and all them who believed their words, or all them who kept God’s commandments, they’s gonna rise in the first resurrection; so they’s the first resurrection.
They gonna be raised to stay with God who saved ‘em; thus they got eternal life through Christ, who broke the chains of death.
And these are them who gonna take part in that first resurrection; and these are them that passed on before Christ showed up, in their ignorance, not havin’ salvation told to 'em. And so the Lord brings about the restorin’ of these folks; and they gonna have a stake in the first resurrection, or have eternal life, bein’ saved by the Lord.
And little children too got eternal life.
But look here, and tremble, and shake in your boots before God, ‘cause y’all oughta tremble; for the Lord don’t redeem none who rebel against Him and die in their sins; yeah, even all those that’s perished in their sins since the world began, that went and rebelled against God, that knew God’s commandments, and just wouldn’t keep ‘em; these are the ones that don’t get a piece in the first resurrection.
So y’all reckon you oughtn’t to tremble? ‘Cause salvation ain’t comin’ to no such; for the Lord has redeemed none such; yeah, neither can the Lord redeem them; for He can’t deny Himself; for He can’t deny justice when it’s got its claim.
And now I’m tellin’ ya, the time gonna come when the salvation of the Lord gonna be shouted out to every nation, kin, tongue, and people.
Yep, Lord, your watchmen gonna lift their voices; together they gonna sing; for they gonna see eye to eye, when the Lord brings Zion back.
Break out in joy, sing together, y’all empty places of Jerusalem; for the Lord has comforted His people, He’s redeemed Jerusalem.
The Lord has made bare His holy arm in front of all the nations; and all the ends of the earth gonna see the salvation of our God.
