Now, it happened that Alma, who done run away from them folks servin’ King Noah, got real sorry 'bout his sins and all that mess, an’ he started sneakin' 'round among the folks, teachin’ 'em what Abinadi had to say—
Yup, 'bout what was comin' down the pike, and also about folks comin' back to life, and how the good Lord would save the people, all that bein’ done through the might, the sufferin’, and the death of Christ, plus his risin' up and headin’ on up to heaven.
And all them who wanted to listen, well, he taught 'em. He kept it on the down-low so the king wouldn’t catch wind, and quite a few folks believed what he was sayin'.
Then it came to pass that all them who believed him made their way to a spot called Mormon, named after the king, sittin' right on the edge of this here land that had some wild critters lurkin' 'round now and then.
Now, over in Mormon, there was this nice clean water spring, and Alma made himself a home there, hidin' out in a patch of little trees come daytime to dodge the king’s nosy eyes.
And it came to pass that all them who believed him made their way over there to soak up his words.
And after a spell, there was a whole mess of folks gathered up at the spot known as Mormon, just itchin’ to hear Alma speak. Yup, everyone who had faith in his message came together to listen. And he taught 'em, preachin’ ‘bout repentance, redemption, and havin’ faith in the Lord.
And it came to pass that he said to ‘em: Now lookie here, here’s the waters o' Mormon (that’s what folks is callin' it), and now, if y’all wanna step into the fold of God, be counted as his people, and be willin' to help each other out, to lighten them burdens; 
Yup, and be ready to mourn with them that’s mournin’; and comfortin’ them that need some comfort, and standin' as witnesses for God no matter where you're at, even 'til death, so you can be redeemed by God, and be part of that first resurrection, and have yourself eternal life—
Now I’m tellin’ ya, if this here’s what your heart’s hankerin’ for, what’s holdin' ya back from bein' baptized in the name of the Lord, kinda like givin’ him a shout-out that you’ve made a deal with him, sayin’ you'll serve him and follow his commandments, so he can bless ya with his Spirit real good-like?
And when the folks heard this, they clapped their hands and hollered: This is what we been wantin’!
Well, it came to pass that Alma took Helam, who was one of the first ones, and went and stood in the water, hollerin’: O Lord, pour out your Spirit on your servant, so he can do this work right and proper.
And when he said them words, the Spirit of the Lord come upon him, and he said: Helam, I dunk you, takin’ this authority from Almighty God, as proof that you’re cotin' to this covenant to serve him ‘til your mortal body’s done for; and may the Spirit of the Lord flow in your life, and may he bless you with eternal life through Christ, who’s been ready since the world got started.
Once Alma finished sayin' that, both him and Helam went down into the water; then they popped back up, grinnin’ like a couple of possums, feelin’ all filled with the Spirit.
And again, Alma took another fella, and went for a second round in the water, and baptized him like the first time, only he didn’t go under again.
And that’s how he did it, baptizin' everyone who come to the waters of Mormon; and they numbered about two hundred and four folks; sure did get baptized in them waters, and they left feelin' just blessed by God.
And they was called the church of God, or the church of Christ, right from then on. And everybody who got baptized with God’s power and authority was added to that church.
Then Alma, with God’s green light, ordained some priests; one for every fifty folks did he set up to preach to 'em and teach 'em about the kingdom of God.
And he told ‘em they shouldn’t teach nothin’ 'cept what he’d taught, and what the holy prophets had spoken.
Yup, he told ‘em they ought to preach nothin’ but repentance and faith in the good Lord, who redeemed his people.
And he told ‘em to keep the peace, no squabblin' with one another, but to look ahead with one eye, havin’ one faith and one baptism, keepin' their hearts knitted tight in unity and love for one another.
And that’s how he sent ‘em off preachin’. And that’s how they became the children of God.
He also told 'em to keep the Sabbath day special and holy, and every single day they oughta give thanks to the Lord their God.
And he told 'em them priests he ordained should work with their own hands to take care of themselves.
And there was one day each week set aside for them to gather up, teachin' the people, and worshipin' the Lord their God, and as much as they could, comin’ together.
Now the priests weren’t to be countin’ on the folks to support 'em; nope, they were s’posed to earn their keep with hard work, so they could get strong in the Spirit, knowin’ God well enough to teach with power and authority from him.
And again, Alma commanded the folks of the church to share what they had, each one givin’ according to their means; if a fella had a heap, he ought to give a heap; and if one had just a little, well, little’s all he had to give; and to those who had nothin’, they should step up and give.
And that’s how they should be givin’ of their stuff, outta their own free will and good-heartedness towards God, and helpin’ them priests that were needin’ it, sure, and any poor, naked soul in sight.
And he said this to ‘em, bein’ told by God; and they walked the solid road before God, helpin’ each other both for their everyday needs and their spiritual desires.
And it came to pass that all this was happenin’ in Mormon, right there by the waters of Mormon, in the woods nearby; oh, how pretty it all was to them who found out about their Redeemer there; and they surely felt blessed, for they would sing praises to him forever.
And all these things were done in the outskirts of the land so the king wouldn’t get wind o’ it.
But wouldn’t ya know it, the king caught wind of a stirrin' among the folks, so he sent his men to keep an eye on 'em. So on the day they was all gathered to hear the good word of the Lord, they was found out by the king.
And then the king said Alma was causin’ all sorts of trouble and stirrin’ up rebellion against him; so he sent his army to go put a stop to ‘em.
And it came to pass that Alma and the Lord's people got warned ‘bout the king’s army comin'; so they packed up their tents and families and hightailed it into the wilderness.
And they numbered around four hundred and fifty souls.
