Well, let me tell ya 'bout how it all went down. After Mosiah followed his daddy's orders and shouted out across the whole kit and caboodle, folks gathered ‘round from all over the land, eager to haul themselves up to the temple and catch the words King Benjamin had to say.
Shoot, there were so many folks there that they couldn't even count ‘em; they’d really multiplied and got large like a summer crop in the south.
They brought the best of their livestock, lookin’ to make some sacrifices and burnt offerings, just like good ol’ Moses said to do.
And they were also fixin’ to thank the good Lord for bringin’ ‘em outta Jerusalem, rescuin’ ‘em from their enemies, and sendin’ some righteous folks to teach ‘em, bless their hearts, along with a just king who brought peace to Zarahemla and showed ‘em how to keep God’s commandments so they could have love fillin’ their hearts.
When they made it to the temple, folks set up their tents all around, each man with his family, wives and kids and all, spread out from the oldest to the youngest, every clan keepin’ to themselves.
They had them tents facing the temple, so they could stay cozy and still hear King Benjamin's words rollin' out.
Well, since there were just too many folks for him to chat with inside the temple, the King had 'em build a tower so everyone could catch his words.
Then he started preachin’ from that tower, but some folks couldn’t hear him ‘cause of all the people chattin’ and makin’ a ruckus, so he had his words wrote down and sent out to those who couldn’t catch what he was sayin’.
Here’re the words he spoke and had scribbled down: “Now listen up, everybody that gathered here, y’all hearin’ me today ain’t here just to dally ‘round with what I’m sayin’, but you gotta pay attention, open your ears and hearts so you can understand and soak up the mysteries of God.”
“I ain’t asked y’all to come up here so you’d be scared of me, or think I’m somethin’ special or better than any of ya.”
"Truth is, I’m just like you, dealin’ with all kinds of weaknesses in my body and mind; but I’ve been chosen by you folks, blessed by my daddy and looked after by the Lord so I could be your ruler, and He’s given me the strength to serve y’all with all the might He’s given me.”
"I reckon I’ve spent my days lookin’ out for your interests, not chasin’ after gold or silver or riches from you;”
"And I’ve sure not let you folks end up in dungeons, or become each other’s slaves, nor murder, steal, plunder, or cheat on one another; and I ain’t let you do any wickedness either, teachin’ you to follow the Lord’s commandments in all things—”
"And I’ve worked hard with my own hands to serve you, keepin’ burdens off your back and not lettin’ anything hard come your way—and y’all can back me up on all this I’m sayin’.”
"But, listen here, I ain’t been doin’ this to brag or point fingers at y’all; I’m sayin’ all this so you know I ain’t got a guilty conscience before God today."
"Now, don’t get me wrong, I ain’t tryin’ to boast ‘cause I’ve floated along servin’ you; I really been servin’ God the whole time."
"And I’m lettin’ you know all this so you can pick up a bit of wisdom; when you’re helpin’ your fellow humans, you’re really servin’ your God.”
"Now y’all been callin’ me your king; and if I’m bustin’ my hump tryin’ to serve ya, then shouldn’t you all be servin’ each other?”
"And if I, your king who's been servin’ y’all, and still hangin’ tight to God, deserve any thanks, well, y’all oughta be thankful to your heavenly King!”
"I’m tellin’ ya, if you were to give every bit of thanks and praise that your heart could muster to the God that made ya, kept ya safe, and caused ya to rejoice, you still wouldn’t come close to what He deserves.”
"I mean, if y’all served the one who made you from the very start, keepin’ ya goin’ day after day by givin’ ya breath and strength—servin’ Him whole hog with every fiber of your being—you’d still be forgettin’ just how much He’s done.”
"And all He asks of ya is to keep His commandments; and He’s promised that if y’all do, you’ll thrive in this land, and He ain’t ever gonna change His mind on that; so if you keep His commandments, He’ll bless ya up right.”
"And first off, He’s the one who made ya and given ya these lives, so you owe Him for that.”
"And second, He wants ya to follow what He’s told ya; and if you do what He commands, He’ll bless ya right on the spot; and even then, you still owe Him, always and forever; so what’s there to brag about?”
"Now I ask ya, what's there to say ‘bout yourselves? Can ya even say nothin’? I reckon not. You can’t say you’re worth more than the dust y’all were made from; but don’t forget, that dust belongs to the one who created ya.”
"And me, even I, your king, am nothin’ better than y’all; I’m just dust like the rest of ya. And as y’all can see, I’m gettin’ on in years, fixin’ to give up this ol’ body to Mother Earth.”
"So, just like I said about servin’ ya with a clear heart before God, I’ve brought y’all together so I can stand before y’all clear of blame, and that none of your blood be on my hands when I face God’s judgement.”
"I’m sayin’ I’ve gathered you all ‘round so I can shake off your blood before I head to my grave, and go down in peace, hopin’ my spirit joins the heavenly choir singin’ praises to a just God.”
"And don’t forget, I gotta say that I’ve gathered you up so I can tell ya I can't be your teacher or king no more;”
"Cause right now, my whole self is shakin’ like a leaf just tryin’ to talk to y’all; but the Lord God’s keepin’ me up, let me speak, and told me I gotta announce today that my boy Mosiah’s gonna be your new king.”
"Now, folks, I reckon you should keep on doin’ just as you’ve been doin’. Stayin’ true to my commandments, and those of my father, has kept y’all safe from your enemies, so if you'll stick with my son’s commandments, or God’s commands brought to ya through him, you’ll do just fine in the land, and your enemies won’t touch ya.”
"But, oh my people, keep your eyes peeled for any fuss or trouble that might crop up, and don’t listen to that evil spirit my father Mosiah warned about.”
"Cause listen close, there’s a woeful fate for anyone who listens to that spirit; if they go followin' it and end up stuck in their sins, that’ll be damned to their soul—you see, they’ll be earnin' themselves an everlasting punishment for breakin’ God’s law against what they know.”
"I’m tellin’ ya, there ain’t any of you who haven’t been taught these things, ‘cept maybe the youngins who can’t understand yet; you all know you owe your heavenly Father all that you’ve got; y’all learned about the records keepin' track of all the prophecies since our old man Lehi left Jerusalem;”
"And everything that’s been said by our forefathers up till now is true and right ‘cause they spoke it under God’s command.”
"Now, after you’ve learned all this, if you decide to go against what’s been taught, pushin’ the Spirit of the Lord to the side, then you won’t get no blessings or guidance in your life, and you’ll miss out on all the good.”
"Y’all, the person doin’ this is just rebelling against God; they’ll be listenin’ to that evil spirit and become enemies of all that’s right; so the Lord won’t be near ‘em ‘cause He don’t dwell in unholy places.”
"So, if that fella don’t repent and goes on bein’ an enemy to God when he dies, then the heaviness of his sin will awaken his soul to feel the weight of his own guilt, makin’ him shy away from the Lord, filled with guilt and pain, like burnin’ fire that won’t ever go out.”
"And now I’m tellin’ you, mercy ain’t got nothin’ for that man; his final fate is to suffer forever."
"O all you old-timers, young men, and little ones who can grasp my words, I hope I made it clear for y’all to wake up to just how awful it is for those who slip into transgression."
"And on the flip side, consider the blessed life of those who keep God’s commandments. They get blessed in everything, both in this life and the next; and if they stick it out till the end, they’re welcomed into heaven, where they get to chill with God in pure happiness. Just remember that, remember it’s all true, ‘cause the Lord God said so.”
