Well, there sure was this spot in Shemlon where them Lamanite gals would come together to sing, dance, and just have a good ol' time.
One day, a small bunch of 'em got together, singin’ and dancin’ their hearts out.
Now them priests of King Noah, feelin’ all ashamed to go back to Nephi city, y’know, they was scared folks would wanna take their heads off, so they didn’t dare go back to their wives and young’uns.
So they hung around in the wilds and stumbled upon them Lamanite gals, just a-watchin' 'em.
And when there was only a few of 'em dancin', they snuck outta their hidey holes and grabbed ‘em, takin’ 'em off into the wilds; reckon they took ‘em twenty-four Lamanite daughters into the thicket.
Well, lo and behold, when the Lamanites noticed their daughters gone, they was furious with Limhi’s folks, thinkin’ them was the culprits.
So, they sent their armies a-marchin’; even the king himself was leadin’ ‘em on up to Nephi land, lookin’ to wipe out Limhi’s people.
Now Limhi, he spotted them from his tower, and saw all them war preps; so he gathered up his folks and set up a trap in the fields and woods.
And when the Lamanites rolled up, the people of Limhi jumped right outta their hidin’ spots and started takin’ ‘em down.
The battle got mighty fierce, ‘cause they fought like lions tryin’ to snatch up their dinner.
Next thing you know, the folks of Limhi was pushin' the Lamanites back; now they wasn’t nearly as many, but they fought for their lives, their wives, and their kids, just like dragons in a fury.
They even stumbled on the Lamanite king amongst all the dead, but he wasn’t dead yet—got himself a nasty wound and was just layin’ there since his folks took off real quick.
So they picked him up, tended to his wounds, and brought him to Limhi, sayin’: “Look here, we got the king of the Lamanites, he’s hurt and got left behind, now let’s put him outta his misery.”
But Limhi told ‘em, “Y’all ain’t gonna kill him, just bring him over here so I can have a look.” So they brought him forth, and Limhi asked, “What in tarnation makes you wanna come to war against my folks? I kept my end of the deal with ya; why don’t y’all honor yours?”
Then the king said, “I broke the deal 'cause your folks took my daughters; I was mad as a hornet and made my people come to fight ya’ll.”
Now, Limhi didn’t know nothin’ ‘bout all this; so he said, “I’m gonna look into this matter, and whoever done it’s gonna pay, so let’s search my people.”
Well, Gideon, the king’s captain, heard all this and stepped up, “Hold on, don’t be huntin’ down my folks; don’t blame ‘em for this mess.”
“Ain’t ya remember the priests of your daddy that this people wanted to take out? They’s the ones hiding out in the wilderness. They’re the ones who stole them Lamanite gals!”
So, now listen here, tell the king ‘bout all this so he can let his people know to calm down; ‘cause they’s already gearin’ up to come for us, and we ain’t got many to stand against ‘em.
And look, they’re comin’ with a whole heap of folks; unless the king smooths things over, we’re all gonna be toast.
Ain’t it the truth that Abinadi’s words are comin’ true against us—all ‘cause we wouldn’t listen to the Lord and turn from our wrongdoings?
So now let’s make peace with the king, keep our word to him; it’d be better to be in chains than lose our lives; so let’s stop spillin' all this blood.
Limhi laid it all out for the king about his daddy and them priests that took off into the wild, claimin’ the girls were on ‘em.
Next thing ya know, the king’s feelin’ better towards his people; he tells ‘em, “Let’s go meet up with my folks, no weapons; I swear on my words, my folks ain’t gonna harm yours.”
So they tagged along behind the king, headin’ out without weapons to face up to the Lamanites. Sure enough, they ran into ‘em, and the Lamanite king bowed down before ‘em, plead’in for Limhi’s people.
And when the Lamanites saw Limhi’s folks without arms, they felt sorry for ‘em and calmed down, goin’ back home with their king in peace.
