Well, it happened that Limhi and his folks made their way back to the city of Nephi, settlin’ down in the land once more, just enjoyin’ the peace.
Then after a spell, them Lamanites got all riled up again, lookin’ to stir trouble with them Nephites, and started wanderin’ into their lands all around.
Now they wasn’t plannin' to kill ‘em, seein’ as how their king had sworn to Limhi not to; but they sure felt like givin’ ‘em a few whacks on the cheek, pushin’ ‘em around, throwin’ heavy loads on their backs, just like herdin' cattle.
Yep, all that was happenin’ just so the Lord’s word could come true.
Now, them Nephites were sufferin’ something fierce, and there weren’t no way they could get outta that mess, 'cause the Lamanites had them surrounded on all sides.
So, it came to pass that the folks started grumblin’ to the king about their troubles; they were itchin’ to head into battle. They sure did bother the king somethin’ awful with their bellyachin’, so he let ‘em go about doin’ what they wanted.
They all huddled up again, strapped on their armor, and marched out to confront those Lamanites, hopin’ to chase 'em off their land.
But wouldn’t ya know it, the Lamanites thrashed ‘em good, pushin’ ‘em back and takin’ down a whole mess of 'em.
Now there was a whole lot of wailin’ and cryin’ among the people of Limhi, with the widows weepin' for their husbands, and the kids cryin’ for their daddies, and brothers mournin’ for their kin.
And let me tell ya, there were a heap o’ widows in that land, and they cried out mightily all day long, ‘cause fear of those Lamanites had hit ‘em hard.
So, it turns out that their constant wails got the rest of Limhi’s folk all hot and bothered against the Lamanites; they went back to fightin’ but ended up gettin’ shoved back again, sufferin’ even more losses.
Yep, they took to battlin’ a third time, and it was the same ol’ story; those not killed made their way back to the city of Nephi.
They humbled themselves down to the ground, puttin’ up with the burdens and takin’ beatin’s, just like their enemies wanted.
And they really did humble themselves in a big way; they cried out to God like their lives depended on it, yeah, all day long they begged Him to save ‘em from their troubles.
But ya know what? The Lord was takin' His sweet time to hear ‘em, ‘cause of all the wrongs they’d done; still, He heard ‘em and started softenin’ them Lamanites’ hearts so they eased up on the Nephites a bit; but the Lord didn’t think it was time to set ‘em free from that bondage.
Then they started to prosper little by little, raisin' up more crops and gatherin' flocks and herds, so they wasn’t starvin’ anymore.
Now, there sure were more women than men, so King Limhi told every man to chip in and help take care of the widows and their young’uns, so they wouldn’t go hungry; and they did this ‘cause so many had been killed.
Limhi’s people stuck together as best they could, protectin’ their grain and their livestock;
And even the king didn’t trust himself outside the city walls unless he had his guards along, worried he might fall into Lamanite hands.
He made sure his folks were keepin' an eye on the land all around, hopin' to catch those priests who’d skedaddled into the wild and done all that damage by snatchin’ the Lamanite girls.
‘Cause they were all stirred up to grab those fellas to give 'em some payback; they slipped into Nephi at night and took their grain and other precious stuff, so they set a trap for 'em.
Then it happened that there wasn’t no more ruckus ‘tween the Lamanites and the people of Limhi until ol’ Ammon and his brothers showed up.
Well, the king was out by the city gates guardin’ things when he spotted Ammon and his crew; thinkin’ they was them priests of Noah, he ordered them to be grabbed, tied up, and thrown in jail. If they really had been the priests, he would've had 'em put to death.
But when he found out they weren’t and that they were his own kin come from the land of Zarahemla, he was just overjoyed.
Now, before Ammon rolled in, King Limhi had sent a small group lookin' for the land of Zarahemla, but they got lost in the wilderness instead.
But they did come across this land that had folks in it once; it was covered in dry bones, mind you, a place that had seen better days; they thought it was the land of Zarahemla, then headed back to Nephi, not long before Ammon showed up.
They brought back a record with ‘em, one that told about the people whose bones they’d found, all marked down on some plates made of ore.
Well, Limhi’s heart just swelled with joy when he learned from Ammon that King Mosiah had a God-given talent for interpretrin’ engravings; and Ammon was all happy too.
But ya see, Ammon and his brothers were feelin' pretty sad ‘cause so many of their people had bit the dust;
And they were also mournin’ ‘cause King Noah and his priests led the folks into so many sins against God; they grieved for Abinadi’s death, too, and for Alma and his crew who’d picked up and left, makin' a church through God’s might and through faith in Abinadi's words.
Yeah, they grieved for their departure, not knowin’ where they’d gone. They woulda been more than happy to join ‘em, seein’ as how they’d made a promise to God to serve Him and keep His commandments.
And since Ammon showed up, King Limhi also made himself and a whole lot of his folks a promise with God to serve Him and follow His commandments.
Then it happened that Limhi and a bunch of his people wanted to get baptized; but there wasn’t nobody around with the God-given authority. Ammon felt unworthy to do it, so he passed on the job.
So they didn’t go ahead and form a church right then, but they were waitin’ on the Lord’s Spirit to guide ‘em. They were hopin’ to be like Alma and his gang who’d fled into the wilderness.
They were keen on bein’ baptized as a sign that they were ready to serve God with all their hearts; but they kept puttin’ it off, and the story of their baptism will come later.
And now all Ammon and his folks, and King Limhi and his people, were focused on breakin’ free from the Lamanites and that old bondage.
