Well now, if it ain't true that Ammon and King Limhi sat down with the folks to figure out how to bust loose from their troubles; so they gathered everyone up, seein' they needed to get the community's thoughts on the whole deal.
Then, they realized the only way outta this mess was to haul off with their families, livestock, and all their tents, and skedaddle into the wild; 'cause the Lamanites were just too many, and there ain't no way Limhi's folks were gonna fight 'em head-on, hopin' to sword their way out.
Next thing ya know, Gideon stepped up and stood in front of the king, sayin', “Hey there, King, you've listened to me yammer on a whole bunch of times when we was dealin' with our fellow countrymen, the Lamanites.”
So, King, if you ain't reckon me as a useless helper, or if you’ve paid attention to my chatter at all, and it’s done ya any good, then I hope you'd give me a listen now, and I promise to help you get this bunch freed from their mess.
And the king said, “Go on, talk away.” And Gideon laid it out for him:
“Now looky here, there’s a back way through the rear wall, back there behind the town. The Lamanites and their guards are all lit up on moonshine at night; so let’s spread the word for all our folks to round up their critters and head into the wild after dark.”
“I’ll follow your lead and deliver the last batch of hooch to the Lamanites, and they'll be tipsy as can be; we’ll sneak on through the secret route to the left of their camp while they’re all passed out.”
“That way, we’ll hightail it with our women, kids, and livestock into the wild; and we’ll go around the land of Shilom.”
So it turned out that the king took Gideon’s words to heart.
King Limhi got his folks to gather their livestock and sent off that tribute of wine to the Lamanites; he even threw in some extra as a gift for 'em, and those Lamanites, well, they drunk down that wine king Limhi sent real quick.
Well, as it played out, Limhi's people snuck out at night into the wilderness with their flocks and herds, makin’ their way 'round the land of Shilom, takin’ a turn towards Zarahemla, followin' Ammon and the gang.
They packed up all their gold, silver, and fancy stuff they could carry along with the food, and headed out into the wild; keepin’ their journey rollin’.
After bein’ out there for a whole bunch of days, they finally made it to Zarahemla, joined up with Mosiah’s crew, and became part of his lot.
Mosiah was mighty glad to see 'em and welcomed 'em with open arms; he took their records too, along with the ones the folks of Limhi had collected.
Now, when them Lamanites figured out Limhi's folks had made a break for it at night, they sent out a posse into the wilderness chasin' after 'em;
But after two days of runnin’ around, they lost track of their scent—ended up wanderin' 'round all lost in the wild.
