An account of Alma and the folks of the Lord, who got chased into the wild by them people of King Noah.
Comprising chapters and 24.
Now Alma, bein’ warned by the Lord that the armies of king Noah were comin’ for ‘em, let his folks know, and so they rounded up their critters, grabbed their grain, and headed out into the wilderness before them armies could catch up to ‘em.
And the Lord gave ‘em strength, so that them folks of king Noah couldn’t catch ‘em to wipe ‘em out.
And they hightailed it for eight days deep into the wilderness.
Then they stumbled onto a mighty fine and pretty place, a spot with clear, sweet water.
So they set up their tents and got to workin’ the land, buildin’ stuff; they were busy bees and worked super hard.
Now the people were hankerin’ for Alma to be their king, ‘cause they thought he was a good ol’ fella.
But he said to ‘em: Listen here, it ain’t right for us to have a king; for the Lord says: Don’t lift one person higher than another, or think one man’s better than the rest; so I’m tellin' ya, we don’t need a king.
Yet, if y’all could always have decent folks to be your kings, it’d be just fine to have one.
But don’t forget the wickedness of King Noah and his priests; I got caught up in a mess myself and did some things that made the Lord mighty upset, which led me to some serious regret;
Still, after goin’ through a whole heap of trouble, the Lord heard my cries and answered my prayers, makin’ me a tool in His hands to help many of y’all find the truth.
But let me tell ya, I ain’t braggin’ on myself ‘cause I ain’t worthy of no braggin’.
And now I’m sayin' to ya, y’all been weighed down by King Noah, in chains to him and his wicked priests, led into sin by ‘em; so y’all were all tied up in sin.
And now that y’all been freed by the power of God from them chains; yeah, outta the hands of King Noah and his crew, and also from the shackles of sin, I want you to stand strong in the freedom you’ve got, and don’t put your trust in no man to be your king.
And also, don’t trust anyone as your teacher or minister unless he’s a man of God, walkin’ in His ways and keepin’ His commandments.
So Alma taught his folks that every man oughta love his neighbor like himself, and there shouldn’t be no fussin’ among ‘em.
And now, Alma was their high priest, bein’ the one who started their church.
And it came to pass that none got the authority to preach or teach unless it was from him by God. So he made sure all their priests and teachers were set apart; and none were set apart unless they were good folks.
So they kept a good eye on their people, makin’ sure to take care of ‘em with what was right.
And it came to pass that they started to prosper a whole lot in the land; and they named that place Helam.
And it came to pass that they multiplied and thrived a whole bunch in Helam, and they built a city, which they called the city of Helam.
But still, the Lord saw fit to chasten His people; yeah, He tests their patience and their faith.
But whosoever puts their trust in Him, well, they’ll be lifted up come that final day. Yep, and that’s how it was with these folks.
For take a look, I’m gonna show you they got brought into bondage, and no one could save ‘em ‘cept the Lord their God, yep, the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob.
And it came to pass that He did deliver ‘em, and showed ‘em His mighty power, and they rejoiced like crazy.
For behold, while they were in the land of Helam, in the city of Helam, tillin’ the land round about, an army of the Lamanites showed up at the borders.
Now it came to pass that Alma’s brothers ran from their fields and gathered in the city of Helam; and they were awful scared seein’ the Lamanites comin’.
But Alma stepped forward and stood among ‘em, tellin’ ‘em not to be scared, but to remember the Lord their God and that He would save ‘em.
So they calmed down their fears and started prayin’ to the Lord to soften the hearts of the Lamanites, hopin’ they’d spare ‘em and their families.
And it came to pass that the Lord did soften the hearts of the Lamanites. And Alma and his brothers went out and surrendered themselves to ‘em, and the Lamanites took over the land of Helam.
Now the armies of the Lamanites, who had chased after King Limhi’s people, had been wanderin’ lost in the wild for quite some time.
And behold, they found those priests of King Noah in a place they called Amulon; and they started settlin’ the land of Amulon and got to workin’ the ground there.
Now the head honcho of those priests was named Amulon.
And it came to pass that Amulon begged the Lamanites; and he sent their wives, who were Lamanite gals, to ask their brothers not to wipe out their husbands.
And the Lamanites felt sorry for Amulon and his brothers, and didn’t destroy ‘em, ‘cause of their wives.
So Amulon and his brothers joined up with the Lamanites, and they were wanderin’ around in the wild lookin’ for the land of Nephi when they ran into the land of Helam, which was held by Alma and his brothers.
Then it came to pass that the Lamanites promised Alma and his bros that if they showed ‘em the way to the land of Nephi, they’d let ‘em keep their lives and their freedom.
But after Alma showed ‘em the route to Nephi, the Lamanites didn’t keep their word; instead, they set guards all around the land of Helam, over Alma and his bros.
The rest of ‘em headed to the land of Nephi; and some of ‘em came back to Helam, bringin’ along the wives and kids of the guards they left behind.
And the king of the Lamanites let Amulon be a king and a big man over his people in the land of Helam; but he didn’t have no power to go against what the king of the Lamanites wanted.
