Well, it sure happened that ol' Amulon got on the king of the Lamanites' good side; so, the king let him and his buddies be teachers for his folks, yeah, over in the lands of Shemlon, Shilom, and Amulon.
Seein' as the Lamanites had moved into all those lands, the king went ahead and put kings in charge of every one of ‘em.
Now, the king's name was Laman, named after his pap, so folks just called him King Laman. And boy, was he the head honcho over a big ol' crowd of folks.
He went and appointed them teachers from Amulon's crew in every land his people owned; and that’s how Nephi's lingo started gettin’ taught to all the Lamanites.
Now they were a friendly bunch when it came to each other; but shoot, they didn't know a thing about God, and Amulon’s crew didn't teach 'em nuthin’ ‘bout the Lord or Moses’s law; and they sure didn't share the words of Abinadi neither.
But they did teach ‘em how to keep track of their records and write to each other.
So, the Lamanites started gettin' rich, tradin’ with each other and growin’ mighty fancy, turnin’ into a clever bunch, wise to the ways of the world, y’know, cunning folks who got into all sorts of trouble and takin' stuff, 'cept when it came to their own kin.
Now Amulon, he started settin' the rules for Alma and his buddies, givin' ‘em a hard time and makin' sure their young’uns harassed each other too.
‘Cause Amulon remembered Alma as one of them priests for the king, and he knew Alma was the one who believed in what Abinadi preached and got himself run outta there. So, he was mighty mad; he was under King Laman’s thumb, but still acted like he was in charge, layin’ down heavy work and puttin’ taskmasters on ‘em.
Well, they were sufferin’ so much that they cried out to God real fierce.
But Amulon, he told ‘em to hush up, puttin' guards on ‘em to make sure no one was callin’ on God lest they be put to death.
So Alma and his folks didn't shout to the Lord, but they sure poured out their hearts to Him, and He knew what they was thinkin'.
Then the Lord spoke to 'em through their suffering, sayin’: "Hold your heads high and take heart, ‘cause I know about the promise y’all made to me; and I’ll make a promise with my people and rescue 'em from bondage."
And He said He’d lighten all them burdens on their backs so they wouldn’t even feel ‘em, even while they was still trapped, ‘cause He wanted ‘em to be standin’ witnesses for Him down the line, and know for sure that He, the Lord God, visits His folks during tough times.
Now it happened that the burdens layin' on Alma and his boys got lighter; yep, the Lord gave ‘em strength to carry on with ease, and they went about it cheerfully and patiently, doin’ all the Lord’s will.
And then it came to pass that their faith and patience were so strong that the Lord spoke to ‘em again, sayin': "Be of good comfort, ‘cause tomorrow I’m gonna lift you outta bondage."
He told Alma: "You’re gonna lead this people, and I’ll be right there with ya to get ‘em outta bondage."
Well, come night, Alma and his crew gathered up all their livestock and grain; yep, they spent the whole night collectin’ ‘em up.
And come mornin', the Lord put the Lamanites into a deep sleep, and their taskmasters were snoozin’ hard too.
So, Alma and his folks snuck off into the wilderness; after a long day of travelin’, they set up camp in a valley, and they named that valley Alma, ‘cause he was their guide in the wild.
And in that valley of Alma, they poured out their thanks to God for bein’ so good to ‘em, easin’ their burdens and gettin’ ‘em outta bondage; ‘cause they were stuck, and nobody could rescue ‘em but the Lord their God.
They gave thanks to Him, y’know, all them men, women, and kiddos that could speak raised their voices, singin’ praises to their God.
Then the Lord said to Alma: "Get a move on, you and your folks, outta this land, ‘cause the Lamanites are awake and chasin’ you; so skedaddle, and I’ll stop those Lamanites right here in this valley so they can’t follow ya."
Well, they took off from that valley and journeyed into the wilderness.
After twelvedays out in the wild, they reached the land of Zarahemla; and ol’ King Mosiah welcomed 'em with open arms.
