Well now, King Mosiah gathered up all folks together, ya see. 
Ain't as many of Nephi’s kin folks hangin' around, as there were folks from Zarahemla, who hailed from Mulek, and the ones that trailed on into the wilderness with him.
And lemme tell ya, there weren't nearly as many Nephites as there were Lamanites; nope, not even close, hardly half as many!
So there they all were, Nephites and folks from Zarahemla, gathered up in two big ol’ groups.
Mosiah took it upon himself to read the records of Zeniff to his folks; yep, he read ‘em all the way from when they skedaddled outta Zarahemla until they made their way back.
And he gave ‘em the scoop on Alma and his buddies, and all the hard times they had, from when they left Zarahemla right until they got back home.
Now, when Mosiah finished readin’ those records, folks hangin’ around were just in awe and shock.
They was in a pickle tryin' to figure out what to make of it all; seein' them folks who got freed from their chains filled ‘em with all sorts of joy.
But then again, when they remembered their brothers who got taken down by the Lamanites, well, that brought ‘em down, and they cried a river.
And again, thinkin’ ‘bout how good God was, and how He swooped in to save Alma and his buddies from those Lamanites, they couldn’t help but lift their voices up, thankin’ the Lord.
And once more, when they thought ‘bout the Lamanites, their own kin, and how sunk in sin they were, pain and worry filled their hearts for their souls.
Well, those kids of Amulon and his pals, who married them Lamanite gals, got real upset ‘bout how their daddies was actin’, so they didn’t wanna be called after them anymore; they took on the name of Nephi, wanting to be known as Nephites too. 
Now, all the folks in Zarahemla got counted among the Nephites, 'cause the kingdom was only passed on to them Nephi descendants.
Then Mosiah finished his speakin' and readin’ to the crowd, and he wanted Alma to step up and say a few words too.
So Alma did talk to ‘em, as they all huddled in big groups, movin’ ‘round preachin’ repentance and faith in the Lord.
He encouraged Limhi’s crowd and the rest who’d been freed from bondage, tellin’ ‘em to remember it was the Lord who saved ‘em.
And after preachin' on a whole mess of stuff, when Alma was done, King Limhi was itchin’ for a baptism, and so was his whole crew.
So, Alma waded into the water and baptized ‘em good; yep, just like he did with his buddies in the waters of Mormon; and all those he baptized were part of God’s church ‘cause they believed in the words of Alma.
Sure enough, King Mosiah gave Alma the green light to set up churches all over Zarahemla; and he had the authority to ordain priests and teachers to look after them.
This was necessary ‘cause there were so many folks that one teacher just couldn’t keep ‘em all in check; couldn’t have 'em all hearin’ the Lord’s word in one big meetin’.
So they split up into different groups, callin’ themselves churches; every church had their own priests and teachers, with every priest preachin’ the word just like Alma taught ‘em.
And even with all them many churches, they was all one church, yep, the church of God; 'cause there weren’t nothin’ preachin’ anywhere except repentance and faith in the Lord.
Now there were seven churches in the land of Zarahemla, and anyone who wanted to take on the name of Christ or God joined them churches.
And them folks was called the people of God. The Lord poured His Spirit all over 'em, and they were blessed and thrived in the land.
