Well now, there was a whole mess of folks who just couldn’t wrap their heads around what King Benjamin was jawin' about, seein' as how they were just tiny tots when he was preachin' to his kin; and they didn't buy into all them old stories their folks told 'em.
They flat-out didn’t believe anythin' ‘bout folks risin’ up from the dead, nor did they think much of this fella comin' named Christ.
An' 'cause they lacked faith, they just couldn't get a grip on the Good Book; their hearts turned hard as a rock.
And they didn’t wanna get dunked in the water; nope, they didn't wanna be part of the church either. They were a whole different breed when it came to faith, and they stuck to their guns till the cows came home, livin' in sin 'cause they wouldn’t holler out to the Good Lord above.
And in Mosiah’s time, they was even fewer in numbers than the good folks followin' the Lord; but due to some fussin' among the brothers, they started growin’ in number.
What happened was they sweet-talked a whole bunch of church folks into doin’ wrong, gettin' ‘em tangled up in all sorts of mischief; so it became clear that them sinners in the church needed talkin' to by the good folks runnin' the church.
Next thing you know, they were dragged up to the priests, passed along by the teachers; and them priests took ‘em straight to Alma, who was the head honcho priest.
Now, King Mosiah had handed Alma the reins over the church.
But shoot, Alma had no idea what to do with 'em; still, there was a whole crowd comin’ up against ‘em, and the people were standin’ tall, spillin' the beans ‘bout their wrongdoings like it was nuthin'.
Ain’t nothin’ like this ever happened in the church before; so Alma was feelin' all kinds of troubled inside, and he sent for the king right quick.
He looked at the king and said, "Hey, we got a handful of folks we brought to ya, they’re bein' accused by their own brothers; they’ve been caught up in all kinds of trouble. An' they ain't even feelin' sorry for what they done; so we brought 'em to ya so you can sort it out."
But King Mosiah said to Alma, "Well, I ain’t the one to judge 'em; I’m passin’ the buck back to you."
Then Alma got even more rattled inside, so he went and asked the Lord what in the world he should do, 'cause he was shakin' in his boots thinkin' he might mess up in God’s eyes.
And wouldn’t ya know it, after pourin’ out his heart to God, the voice of the Lord came to him, sayin':
"Bless your heart, Alma, and bless all them folks who got dunked in those waters of Mormon. You’re blessed ‘cause you got tons of faith in just the words of my servant Abinadi.
And they’re blessed for havin' faith in just what you been tellin' ‘em.
And you’re blessed ‘cause you gone and set up a church for this crowd; and they gonna be my folks.
Yep, bless this people willing to carry my name; in my name, they’re gonna be called, and they belong to me.
And ‘cause you asked me about the sinner, you’re blessed.
You’re my worker; and I’m makin’ a deal with you that you’re gonna get eternal life; you’re gonna do my work and gather up my sheep.
And if folks hear my voice, they gonna be my sheep; and you’ll bring ‘em to the church, and I’ll take 'em too.
'Cause listen here, this is my church; anybody who gets dunked, it’s all ‘bout repentin’. And whoever ya take in, gonna believe in my name; 'nd I’ll wipe their slate clean.
It’s me who carries the weight of the world’s sins; it’s me who made ‘em; and it’s me who’ll give a spot right next to me for them that believe to the end.
For you see, in my name, they’re called; and if they knows me, they’ll come forth and have a spot with me eternally.
And it’s gonna happen that when the second trumpet sounds, them who never knew me will come on out and stand before me.
And then they’ll realize I'm the Lord their God, their Redeemer; but they just wouldn’t let themselves be saved.
Then I’ll have to tell ‘em, I never knew ‘em; and they’ll be sent away to the everlasting fire made for the devil and his crew.
So I’m sayin’ this here to ya, anyone who won't listen to my voice, they ain't gettin' in my church, 'cause I won't be takin' 'em in on the last day.
And I’m tellin’ ya to go; and whoever messes up against me, you gonna judge ‘em for their wrongs; and if they own up to their sins before you and me, and truly mean it in their hearts, you’ll forgive 'em, and I will too.
Yep, and as many times as my folks come back repentin’, I’ll forgive 'em for what they done.
And you gotta forgive each other’s wrongs too; 'cause I tell ya, if someone won’t let go of what their neighbor done when they say they’re sorry, they’s just puttin' themselves in the hot seat.
Now I’m sayin’ to you, go; and anyone who won’t turn from their mess, they ain't gonna get counted among my people; and this here’s the rules movin’ on from now.
Then Alma, after catchin’ wind of these words, wrote ‘em down to keep ‘em handy, so he could judge the church folks right by God’s commandments.
And wouldn’t ya know, Alma went and judged all those who got caught up in trouble, just like the Lord said to do.
And whoever fessed up to their sins and admitted to ‘em, he counted 'em in with the church folks;
And those who wouldn’t admit their sins and repent of their wrongdoings, well, they didn’t make the cut among the church folks, and their names got wiped clean.
Then Alma took charge of all the church business, and they managed to find peace again, prosperin' real good while walkin’ right before God, takin’ in many, and baptizin’ just as many.
And all this was done by Alma and his fellow workers who led the church, busy as bees in teachin’ God’s word, puttin’ up with all kinds of troubles, bein’ picked on by all them folks who didn’t belong to the Lord’s church.
And they sure did keep admonishin' their brethren; and every single one got reminded by God’s word ‘bout their sins, bein’ told to pray without ceasin', and to give thanks for everything.
