Well, after the sons of Mosiah done got through with all that there stuff, they rounded up a few good folks and headed back to their daddy, the king. They asked him if he could let ‘em take their little crew on up to Nephi so they could preach about what they heard and share the good word of God with their kinfolk, the Lamanites—
They was hopin’ to get them folks to understand the Lord their God and maybe open their eyes ‘bout how wrong their ancestors had been; and they wished to soothe that bitter hatred they had towards the Nephites, so they could find some joy in the Lord their God, become pals, and no more fightin’ all over the land God gave ‘em.
Now, they really wanted to shout salvation from the rooftops to every last livin’ soul ‘cause they couldn’t stand the thought of anyone bein' lost. Even the mere idea of some poor soul sufferin’ forever made ‘em shake and quake in their boots.
The Lord’s spirit was workin’ on ‘em hard, ‘cause truth be told, they was downright terrible sinners. But the Lord, in his boundless mercy, decided to cut ‘em some slack; still, they done suffered a heap of anguish ‘bout their wrongdoings, worryin’ they’d be tossed aside forever.
So they went and begged their daddy for many days to let ‘em head up to Nephi.
Then, King Mosiah went and asked the Lord if it was alright to send his sons among the Lamanites to spill the good word.
And the Lord told Mosiah: Let ‘em go on up, ‘cause many folks gonna believe what they say, and they’ll get that sweet eternal life; and I’ll snatch your boys right outta them Lamanites’ clutches.
So, it all came to pass that Mosiah said sure thing, and gave ‘em the green light to go on their way.
They took off into the wilds to go preach to the Lamanites, and I’ll get to tell y’all all ‘bout their adventures later on.
Now, ol’ King Mosiah didn’t have nobody to hand the kingdom over to, ‘cause none of his sons wanted any part of it.
So he grabbed the records carved onto them brass plates, along with the plates of Nephi, and all the stuff he’d kept safe as per the Lord’s commands, after he’d translated and written down the records found by Limhi’s people, which Limhi personally handed over to him;
He did this ‘cause his folks was mighty anxious; they really wanted to know what happened to them poor folks who got wiped out.
And so, he translated ‘em with them two stones he had fixed to the sides of a bow.
Now, these items were set up right from the start, passed down through the ages for helpin' folks understand languages;
And the Lord kept a hold on ‘em, so that every soul that laid claim to the land could know ‘bout the sins and wickedness of their people;
And whoever’s got these here records is called a seer, just like folks used to be back in the day.
Now once Mosiah wrapped up translating them records, it laid out the tale of the people who got destroyed, all the way from when they meet their doom back to when they built that big ol’ tower, when the Lord mixed up their languages and scattered ‘em all over the earth, shoot, right back to the creation of Adam.
You see, this here account made the folks of Mosiah weep real hard, yeah, they was full of sorrow; but at the same time, it filled ‘em with a heap of knowledge, and that brought ‘em joy.
And this account’s gonna get written down later; ‘cause it’s real important that all folks know the things in this story.
Now, as I told ya, when King Mosiah got done with all this, he took the brass plates and all his keep sakes, and handed ‘em over to Alma, who was Alma’s boy; yep, all them records, along with the interpreters, he passed ‘em to him, tellin’ him to keep and preserve ‘em, and also keep track of the folks, passin’ ‘em down through the generations just like they done from the time Lehi left Jerusalem.
