Well now, when good ol' Mosiah got done with all that, he got himself to hollerin' 'round the land, tryin' to figure out what folks wanted when it came to pickin' a king.
Then, wouldn't ya know it, the people piped up sayin', "We sure would like Aaron, your boy, to be our king and run things for us."
But Aaron had already wandered off to Nephi, so the king couldn't hand him the crown, and you know what? Aaron didn't wanna take it anyway; his brothers weren't interstin' in bein' king neither.
So ol' King Mosiah went back to the people again, this time sendin' out a letter. And ya know what it said?
"Listen up, my folks, my brothers, I hold ya in high regard. I want y’all to think 'bout this whole king business ya wantin' to have."
"Now, I’m here to tell ya that the one who really oughta be king ain't interested; he don't want the job."
"And if we lay a new one down in his spot, well shoot, I reckon there’s gonna be a mess of fightin'. Ain't no tellin' if my boy, who should be takin' the throne, might get all hot and bothered and lead some folks astray, causin’ all sorts of trouble and blood spillin', messin' with the good ol' ways of the Lord.”
“Let’s think wisely 'bout this, and we ain't got no business takin' down my son, and we sure don't need to be chasin' down another if he ain't nothin' but a new face for the throne.”
“If my boy gets back to feelin’ all proud and gets to claimin' what's his, then we’re all gonna be knee-deep in sin.”
“So let’s be smart and keep our eyes peeled on what's comin’, doin’ what we gotta do to keep the peace.”
“Therefore, I’ll be your king for as long as I breathe; but we oughta pick us some judges to handle the folks right, goin' by our laws. We’re fixin’ to get our lives organized and pick wise folks to keep this thing steered straight according to God’s commands.”
“Now, it’s a whole lot better for a man to be judged by God than by just any man, ‘cause God’s judgments are always fair, but man’s sure ain’t always just.”
“So, if y’all could find good folks to be your kings, makin' sure they put God’s laws first, kinda like my daddy Benjamin did for ya—I'll tell ya right now, if that could stay true, then havin’ kings wouldn’t be a bad thing at all."
“And let me tell ya, I worked real hard with all I got to teach y’all God’s commandments and keepin’ peace ‘round here, so we ain’t got any wars, no steal’n, no plunderin’, no killin’, and none of that other nasty stuff.”
“And whoever’s done wrong, I’ve made sure to send ‘em packin’ with a punishment that fits right, just like our folks taught us.”
“Now I’m tellin’ ya, since not every single soul is good-hearted, it just don’t make sense for y’all to go havin' a king or kings to rule.”
“Just think how much mischief one bad king can start; shoot, the destruction that follows ain't pretty!”
“Y’all remember King Noah and his wicked ways, and his people—look at the trouble they got into; ‘cause of their misdeeds, they found themselves in chains.”
“If it weren't for the cleverness of their Creator and their heartfelt turnin’ back to Him, they’d still be stuck in those chains.”
"But lo and behold, He did save 'em 'cause they bowed low before Him; and when they cried out hard enough, He set 'em free from their troubles. That's how the Lord works His magic with folks like us who put their faith in Him."
“And listen here, I’m tellin' ya, ya can’t just toss out a crooked king without a heap of fuss and a whole lotta blood spilled.”
“'Cause you see, he’s got his wrongdoer buddies, and they’re keepin' close watch; he’ll just rip up the laws that came from the good folks who used to rule right, and he’s gonna stomp on the commandments of God.”
“He goes and makes up laws, sendin’ ‘em out like how he sees fit, makin’ folks pay if they don’t toe the line, and if ya dare go against him, he’ll send his armies to do war, and you bet he’ll try to wipe ‘em out; that’s how a bad king twists the good ways.”
“Now, I’m tellin’ ya, it ain't right for such nasty business to mess with y’all.”
“So, ya better choose judges by what folks here are sayin', so y’all can be judged as our fathers laid down the law, ‘cause that’s the right path, handed down by the Lord.”
“It ain’t often that the folks want somethin’ that’s wrong, but it’s pretty common for a handful of them to want the bad stuff; so y’all keep an eye on that and make it a law to run your ship by what the people say.”
“And if the day comes when the folks start choosin’ the bad path, well, that’s when God’s judgment is gonna come down hard on ya; that’s when He’ll show up with some real destruction, just like He done before.”
“If you got judges, and they ain’t judgin’ ya right, y’all can make a bid for a higher judge over ‘em.”
“If them higher judges can’t keep it straight, just gather up a few of the lower judges, and they can hold the higher judges accountable, goin’ by what the people say.”
“I’m tellin’ ya, make sure to do this with respect for the Lord; I command ya to do these things, and that y’all have no king; if the folks mess up, they gotta face the music themselves.”
“‘Cause let me tell ya, many sins folks racked up came from their kings’ wrongdoings, and they gotta deal with the consequences from their kings.”
“Now I want this unfairness to stop in this land, especially with my people; I desire that we live in a land of freedom, where each man can enjoy his rights and privileges just the same for as long as the Lord lets us keep stayin’ on this land, yeah, as long as any of our kin are around.”
“Mosiah wrote a whole heap more to them, layin' out all the tough times and troubles that come from a good king, all the heartaches for their folks, and the gripin’ they did ‘bout their king; he laid it all bare.”
“And he told ‘em this ain’t how things should be; the load gotta be shared by all, so every man carries his weight.”
“He also laid out all the troubles they faced havin’ a bad king runnin’ things over ‘em;”
“Yeah, all his misdeeds and bad behaviors, the wars, the fights, the bloodshed, the thievin’, the plunderin’, the whorin’, and all sorts of other bad stuff that ain't even worth listin'—told 'em this ain’t how it should be, it just ain’t right with God’s commandments.”
“Then it happened, after King Mosiah sent all that wisdom out there, folks was convinced he was speakin’ the truth.”
“So, they let go of their wishes for a king and got mighty eager that every man should have an equal shot all ‘round the land; and every last one of ‘em stood up ready to take responsibility for their own sins.”
“So, they got together in groups all over, and each one voted on who oughta be their judges, so they’d be judged fair-like by the laws that had been set down; and they was all real happy for the freedom that had come their way.”
"They fell deeper in love with Mosiah; they held him higher than any other fella ‘round; they didn’t see him as a tyrant lookin’ to line his pocket, no sir, he didn’t care for that dirty lucre that messes with the soul; he hadn’t squeezed ‘em for riches, nor did he take joy in spillin’ blood; he made peace here and granted his people freedom from all kinds of bondage; so they sure held him in the highest regard."
"So it happened that they appointed judges to run things over ‘em according to the law, and they did that all over the place."
"Then Alma got picked to be the first chief judge, and he was also the high priest, his old man had gave him the job and all the church duties."
"And Alma was walkin' in the ways of the Lord, keepin’ the commandments, makin’ right calls, and peace was flowin’ all over the land."
“So began the era of judges all ‘round the land of Zarahemla, among the folks known as the Nephites; and Alma was the first and chief judge.”
"And it came to be that his daddy passed on, livin’ to a ripe old age of eighty-two, havin' done what God told him."
"And it also happened that Mosiah passed away, in the thirty-third year of his reign, at sixty-three; addin’ up to a total of five hundred and nine years since Lehi booked it outta Jerusalem."
"And that’s how the reign of kings over the Nephite people came to an end; and that’s how the days of Alma wrapped up, who was the founder of their church."
