King Benjamin keeps on talkin’—Salvation’s all ‘bout that Atonement, y’all—Y’all gotta believe in God to be saved—Stick to bein’ faithful and keepin' yourself free from sin—Share what ya got with the needy—Do everything with a bit of sense and order.
And sure enough, after King Benjamin finished up what the angel done told him, he looked around at the folks, and wouldn’t ya know, they all fell flat to the ground outta fear of the Lord hittin’ ‘em like a ton of bricks.
And they realized just how low they were, less than dirt, y’know? And they all yelled out together, sayin’: Oh mercy! Please pour out that redeeming blood of Jesus so we can be forgiven and cleanse our hearts; ‘cause we believe in Jesus Christ, the Son of God, who made the heavens and the earth and everything in it; who’s gonna come down to hang out with folks like us.
So it happened that after they'd hollered those words, the Spirit of the Lord came over ‘em, and they got filled with joy ‘cause they had their sins wiped clean, feelin’ that peace in their hearts from the tremendous faith they had in Jesus Christ who was about to come, just like King Benjamin had told ‘em.
And then King Benjamin opened his mouth again and started speakin’: Hey there, my friends, my family, listen up now, I want y’all to really catch what I’m fixin’ to share with ya.
‘Cause if knowin’ how good God is has hit ya hard and made ya feel how small and worthless you really are—
I’m tellin’ ya, if y’all have come to know just how good God is, his unmatched power, wisdom, his patience, and how he puts up with us folks; and also, that Atonement that’s been in place since the world kicked off, so that salvation could be there for anyone who trusts in the Lord and sticks to followin’ his rules ‘til the very end of this life—
I’m talkin’ about folks who will be saved through that Atonement that’s been ready since the world began for all people since Adam fell, those who is and those who’s still comin’, ‘til the very end.
And this here’s the way salvation comes ‘round. Ain’t no other way to be saved than what I’ve been talkin’ ‘bout; and there ain’t no conditions for bein’ saved other than what I’ve already told ya.
You gotta believe in God; believe he’s real, and that he made everythin’, up in the heavens and down on earth; believe he holds all wisdom and power, both up in the sky and down here; believe that folks don’t really grasp all the stuff the Lord knows.
And again, I say ya gotta repent of your sins and leave ‘em behind, humble yourself ‘fore God; ask from the bottom of your heart for him to forgive ya; and now, if you believe all this, you best make sure you act on it.
And I reckon I’ve said it before, as y’all come to know the glory of God, or if ya’ve tasted of his goodness and felt his love, and received that clean slate for your sins that brings such a heap of joy into your souls, I’d like for ya to always remember just how great God is, how small you are, and his kindness and patience towards y’all who ain’t worthy, keepin' your heads bowed in real humility, callin’ on the Lord every day, and standin’ firm in the faith of what’s to come, like the angel told.
And let me tell ya, if ya do all this, you’ll always be filled with joy, and the love of God will overflow in ya, and you’ll keep that clean slate for your sins; and you’ll grow in knowin’ just how glorious he is, or in knowin’ what’s true and right.
And you won’t be thinkin’ ‘bout hurtin’ each other, but livin’ peacefully and giving each person what’s fair and due.
You won’t let your kids go hungry or runnin' ‘round without clothes; you won’t let ‘em break God’s laws and fight like cats and dogs, servin’ that devil, who’s all about sin, and who’s been called out by our forefathers as the enemy to all that’s good.
But you’ll teach ‘em to walk the path of truth and sense; you’ll teach ‘em to love each other and lend a hand when needed.
And you’ll also help out those folks who need a hand; you’ll share your stuff with folks in need; and you won’t let a beggar come askin’ you for help in vain, sendin’ them off to suffer.
Maybe you’ll think: Well, that feller brought this on himself; so I ain’t gonna share my grub or my stuff so he don’t go hungry, ‘cause he’s gotta face the music for his mess—
But I tell ya, if you act like that, you’re gonna have a lot to feel sorry for; and unless you change your heart ‘bout what you did, you’ll be lost forever, and won’t have a place in God’s kingdom.
‘Cause let’s face it, ain’t we all just beggars? Don’t we all rely on the same good Lord for all our needs, food, clothes, gold, silver, and every bit of riches we’ve got?
And right now, you’ve been callin’ out his name, askin’ for a clean slate for your sins. Has he let you ask for nothin’? Nope; he poured out his Spirit on ya, filled your hearts with joy, and left your mouths hangin’ shut ‘cause you were so blasted happy.
Now, if God, the one who made ya, who you depend on for your lives and everything you’ve got, gives ya whatever you ask that’s right, with faith that you’re gonna receive it, well then, how should ya go ‘bout sharing what you have with each other?
And if you judge the guy who’s out there askin’ ya for help, puttin’ up his plea so he don’t perish, and you’re throwin’ him under the bus, how much more just will be your own judgement for holdin’ back your stuff, which don’t rightly belong to you but belongs to God, the one your life belongs to too; and yet you don’t even ask or repent for what you’ve done.
I’m tellin’ ya, woe to that man, ‘cause what he has is gonna go down with him; and I’m sayin’ all this to those who’re sittin’ on riches in this world.
And again, I’m talkin’ to the poor, you folks who ain’t got much yet scrape by day to day; I’m talkin’ to all you who turn down a beggar ‘cause you ain’t got nothin’; I wish in your hearts you'd think: I’m not givin’ ‘cause I don’t have it, but if I did, I’d help.
If ya say that in your hearts, you’ll be golden; but if not, you’re guilty, ‘cause you’re just covetin’ what you ain’t got.
And now, for the sake of all this I’ve been yappin’ about—that is, for holdin’ on to that clean slate for your sins daily, so you can walk guilt-free before God—I wish y’all would share your stuff with the poor, every single man givin’ according to what he’s got, like feedin’ those hungry, clothin’ those without, visitin’ the sick, and helpin’ ‘em out both spiritually and physically, according to what they need.
And make sure all this gets done with some sense and order; ‘cause it ain’t right for a feller to run faster than he can handle. And again, it’s wise to put in the hard work so you can claim that prize; so everything needs to be done in the right way.
And don’t forget that whoever borrows from their neighbor better give back what they borrowed, just like they agreed, or else they’ll be sittin’ in sin; and you might even lead your neighbor into sin too.
And in the end, I can’t spill all the ways you can mess up; there’s so many ways it’d take me forever to list ‘em out.
But this much I know to be true, if you ain’t watchin’ yourself, your thoughts, your words, your actions, and stickin’ to God’s commandments, and keepin’ the faith in what you’ve heard ‘bout Jesus comin’, even ‘til your last breath, you’re gonna be lost. And now, hey you, remember this and don’t go perishing.
