Well, let me tell ya how it went down when King Benjamin got to preachin' to his folks; he sent folks 'round to ask if they really believed all them words he just laid on 'em.
And all of 'em hollered back in unison, sayin’: Heck yeah, we believe every word ya said; and we know it's all true ‘cause the Spirit of the good Lord has done a mighty fine work in our hearts, makin' us want to do right instead of wrong all the time.
And we reckon that, thanks to God's endless goodness, and the way His Spirit's been revealin’ things to us, we sure got a mighty good idea of what's comin’ next; and if it were right, we could tell yer fortunes about it all.
It’s our faith in what our king has preached that’s brought us this joy, and oh boy, do we feel happy as can be.
And we’re ready to make a promise to our God to do what He wants, bein’ real obedient to His commandments for as long as we draw breath, so we don’t end up tortured forever like that angel warned, and avoid takin’ a sip from the cup of His wrath.
Now, these here are the words King Benjamin was hopin’ to hear from y’all; so he said: You done spoke just what I was lookin’ for; the promise y’all made is a good and right one.
Now, because of that promise, y’all gonna be called the kids of Christ, His sons and His daughters; see here, today He’s spiritually made you His own, ‘cause you say your hearts got flipped upside-down through faith in His name; so you’re born of Him and belong to Him.
And under this name, you’re set free, and ain't no other name out there that can set ya free. Ain't no other way to salvation, so I reckon it’s best if y’all take on the name of Christ, all y’all who’ve made that promise to God, bein’ good 'til the end of your days.
And I tell ya what, whoever does that is gonna be found sittin’ on the right side of God, ‘cause He’ll sure know that name you go by; you’ll be called by the name of Christ.
Now it’s a fact, if someone don’t take on the name of Christ, they gotta be called somethin’ else; so they’ll find themselves sittin’ on the left side of God.
And I really want y’all to remember that this is the name I said I’d give ya that shouldn’t never be erased, unless y’all mess up; so keep an eye on yourselves and don’t go screwin’ up, or that name might just get wiped outta your hearts.
I’m tellin’ you now, you better hold onto that name in your hearts so you ain’t on the left side of God, but so you can hear and know the voice that’s gonna call ya, and also the name He’ll call ya by.
‘Cause how’s a fella supposed to know the master if he ain't never served him, and he’s just a stranger to him, far from what’s in his heart?
And I’ll ask you this: would a man go and take his neighbor’s mule and keep it for himself? I tell ya, no sirree; he won’t even let it graze with his herd, but he’ll shoo it off and send it packin’. I'm tellin’ ya, that’s how it’ll be with y’all if ya can’t remember the name you’re called by.
So I’m askin’ you folks to be steadfast and unmovable, always doin’ good deeds, so that Christ, the Lord God Almighty, can seal ya as His own, helpin’ to bring ya to heaven, where everlasting salvation and eternal life await ya, through the wisdom, power, justice, and mercy of Him who made everything, in heaven and on earth, who’s God over all. Amen.
