Well, let me tell ya, after King Limhi finished chattin' with his folks, he had a lot to say, but I only wrote down a little bitta what he said in this here book. He filled 'em in on everything goin’ on with their kin folks over in Zarahemla. 
Then he told Ammon to stand up in front of the crowd and tell 'em all 'bout what happened to their kin since Zeniff picked up and left the land, all the way up to the time he got here himself. 
Ammon also went ahead and shared the last words of King Benjamin, breakin’ 'em down for King Limhi’s folks so they could figure out what he was talkin’ about. 
When he finished yammerin’, King Limhi sent the crowd on their way, tellin' ‘em to head back home. 
Next thing ya know, he had 'em bring the plates that told the story of his people from the time they skedaddled outta Zarahemla, so Ammon could have a look-see. 
As soon as Ammon finished readin' the record, the king wanted to know if he could make sense of different languages, and Ammon told him, "Nope, I can’t do that." 
The king then said, "Well, I'm mighty troubled ‘bout what my folks are goin' through. I sent forty-three of ‘em off on a trek into the wild, hopin' they'd find Zarahemla so we could plead with our kin to help us get outta this mess." 
They got lost out there in the wilderness for quite a spell, but they didn’t give up. They didn't find Zarahemla, but made it back here after wanderin’ 'round a bunch of water and discoverin’ a place piled high with bones—human and animal alike—and ruins of all kinds, meetin' folks who were as plentiful as the stars. 
Now, to prove they weren't blowin' smoke, they brought back twenty-four shiny plates full of engravings, all made of pure gold. 
And don't ya know, they also hauled back big ol’ breastplates made of brass and copper, and they were in pretty good shape too. 
As for swords, well, their handles were shot, and the blades were rustier than a fence post; nobody 'round here can figure out what the engravin's mean. So I asked, "Can ya translate these?" 
I asked him again, "You know anyone who can?" 'Cause I really wanna know what these records say; maybe they'll clue us in on what happened to those folks who got wiped out, or maybe even tell us 'bout the folks who did get wiped out; I'm just real curious ‘bout why all that happened. 
Now Ammon told him, "I know a fella who can translate those records—he's got this special lookin’ tool and can handle all old records; it’s a gift from God. They call 'em interpreters, but only folks who are told to look through ‘em can do it, or they might see somethin’ they ain't supposed to and get themselves in trouble. The ones who are told to look are called seers." 
And let me tell ya, the king of the folks in Zarahemla is the one God told to do all this, and he’s got that special gift. 
The king then said that a seer’s got more clout than a prophet. 
Ammon replied that a seer is both a revelator and a prophet, and ain't nobody got a greater gift unless he's got the power of God, which ain't too common; but folks can be trusted with great power from God. 
A seer can know what’s been and what’s to come, makin’ all manner of secrets come to light, revealin' stuff that wouldn’t be known otherwise. 
So, God made it so folks could work real miracles if they just had faith; that makes ‘em quite the help to each other. 
And when Ammon wrapped up his talk, the king was happier than a pig in mud, thankin’ God and sayin’, "No doubt there's a big ol’ mystery in these plates, and these interpreters were made to help folks figure it all out." 
Oh, how amazing are the ways of the Lord, and how patient He is with His people; and man, how blind and thick-headed folks can be, 'cause they won’t go lookin’ for wisdom, nor do they want her to take charge of ‘em! 
Yep, they’re like a wild herd runnin’ from the shepherd, scatterin’ ’round, gettin’ driven away, and eaten up by beasts lurking in the woods.
