Well now, lemme tell ya 'bout the record of Zeniff—it's 'bout his folks, from the time they skedaddled outta the land of Zarahemla till they was finally free from them Lamanites' grip.
That there’s a whole bunch of chapters, up to 22.
So Zeniff, he took a crew from Zarahemla, lookin' to stake a claim in Lehi-Nephi—an' the king of them Lamanites was kind enough to let 'em have it—though there was some serious knockdown drag-out fights ’tween the Lamanites and Zeniff’s folks, 'round 200 to 187 B.C.
I, Zeniff, learned all the Nephite lingo, ya know, an’ I knew the lay of the land in Nephi, that there land our folks first settled on. I was sent out like a little spy amongst them Lamanites so we could figure out how to sneak up on ‘em an’ take ‘em out—but I tell ya, when I spotted some good folks among ‘em, I just couldn’t stand the thought of them bein' wiped out.
So I got to arguin' with my brothers out there in the wilds, hopin' our leader would strike a deal with 'em. But he was a hard-headed, blood-hungry fella who ordered I should be taken out, but I escaped all that fuss; the blood ran thick, with fathers ‘gainst fathers and brothers fightin’ brothers, till we lost a whole heap of folks in them woods. The ones who made it back to Zarahemla had to tell the sad story to the wives and kids.
Even then, I was so fired up to claim our old homestead, I gathered up every soul who wanted to come along, an’ we set off again through the wild to go up to the land; but we hit a rough patch with hunger and hard times ’cause we was slow to remember the Lord God Almighty.
But after wanderin’ ’round for what felt like ages, we finally plopped down our tents where our brothers met their end, which was real close to our folks' old land.
So there I went again, draggin’ along four of my fellas into the city, headed for the king, just tryin' to figure out what he was fixin' to do, and if I could bring my folks in there an’ take the land in peace.
I walked in to see the king, an’ he made a deal with me—said we could have Lehi-Nephi and the land o’ Shilom.
He also told his people to clear outta there, and me and my kin went right in to claim it for ourselves.
We got busy buildin’ us some structures and fixin’ up the city walls, yeah, even those walls over in Lehi-Nephi and Shilom.
Then we got to workin’ the land, plantin' all sorts of seeds: corn, wheat, barley, and an assortment of fruits; and wouldn’t ya know it, we started to multiply and do real well.
But ole King Laman was crafty, lookin’ to keep my folks bound up, so he let us take the land for a spell.
But lo and behold, after we’d been livin' there for twelve years, that King Laman started gettin’ jittery, worried that my people might get too strong and he couldn’t keep ‘em under his thumb no more.
Them folks were lazy, full of idols; all they wanted was to take us captive so they could soak up the fruits of our labor an' chow down on our livestock.
So, it turned out that King Laman stirred his folks up, lookin' to pick a fight with mine; an' before long, troubles and wars were brewin’ in our neck of the woods.
Well, in the thirteenth year of my reign in Nephi, when my folks was out waterin’ an’ feedin’ their flocks, a big ol' crew of Lamanites come pourin’ in on us, startin' to whack us down and run off with our animals and crops.
Yup, all them who could make a run for it darted towards the city of Nephi, cryin’ out to me for some protection.
So, I got ‘em all armed up with bows, arrows, swords, and all kinds of weapons we could throw together, and me and my crew headed out to face them Lamanites in battle.
I tell ya, we went out there strong in the Lord, cryin' out like crazy for Him to save us from our enemies, 'cause we finally woke up to how He saved our ancestors.
And wouldn't ya know it, God heard our pleas an' answered our prayers; we went to face them Lamanites, and in just one day and night, we took out three thousand and forty-three of ‘em; we fought ‘em off till we had driven ‘em right outta our land.
An’ me? Well, I rolled up my sleeves and helped bury the fallen. And let me tell ya, it was a real heartbreak—two hundred seventy-nine of our brothers were lost that day.
