Samuel, the Lamanite prophet, shared many prophecies that can’t all be recorded here.
He told them: I’m giving you a sign; in five years, the Son of God will come to save everyone who believes in Him.
He said another sign will occur at His arrival: there will be bright lights in the sky, so much so that the night before His birth will be as bright as day.
So, there will be one day and a night and a day, appearing as one long day with no night, and this will be a sign for you. You will see the sunrise and sunset, knowing for certain that it is two days and a night; yet the night will not be dark, and it will happen the night before He is born.
A new star will appear, unlike any you have ever seen, and this too will be a sign for you.
And this is not all; there will be many signs and miracles in the heavens.
You will all be astonished and amazed to the point of falling to the ground.
Anyone who believes in the Son of God will be granted eternal life.
God has commanded me, through His angel, to come and share this with you; He told me to proclaim these things to you and to urge you to repent and prepare for the Lord’s coming.
Now, because I'm a Lamanite and have spoken the words God commanded, you are upset and wish to harm me, even casting me out from among you.
You should listen to my words because I have come here to the walls of this city so you can hear and understand the judgments of God that await you for your wrongdoings, and also to inform you of the conditions for repentance.
And also so you can learn about the coming of Jesus Christ, the Son of God, the Father of heaven and earth, the Creator of everything from the beginning; and you will also learn of the signs of His coming, so you may believe in His name.
If you believe in His name, you will turn away from all your sins, so that you may receive forgiveness through His grace.
Here is another sign I give you, a sign of His death.
He must die in order for salvation to happen; it is necessary for Him to die to enable the resurrection, allowing people to be brought back into the presence of the Lord.
Yes, His death will lead to resurrection and will save all humanity from spiritual death; because of Adam's fall, all people are cut off from God’s presence and are considered dead, both physically and spiritually.
But Christ’s resurrection restores everyone, bringing all people back into the presence of the Lord.
This resurrection allows for repentance; if someone repents, they will not be cut down and thrown into the fire, but if someone does not repent, they will be cut down and thrown into the fire. They will again face a spiritual death, a second death, because they are severed from righteousness once more.
So, repent, repent, or else by knowing these things and not acting on them, you will bring condemnation upon yourselves, facing a second death.
As I mentioned regarding another sign, a sign of His death, on the day He dies, the sun will go dark and will not shine for you; the moon and stars will also not give light. There will be complete darkness for three days after He dies until He rises again.
When He dies, there will be thunder and lightning for many hours, and the earth will shake and tremble; the solid rocks on the earth will be broken apart.
They will be split in two and will forever be found in cracks and fragments all over the earth, both above and below.
There will be great storms, and many mountains will be laid flat like valleys; many places now considered valleys will become tall mountains.
Many roads will be destroyed, and many cities will become empty and desolate.
Graves will open up, revealing many of the dead, and many holy people will appear to many others.
The angel told me there would be thunder and lightning for many hours.
He also said that while the thunder and lightning occur, darkness would cover the whole earth for three days.
The angel told me that many will witness even bigger events, all to ensure that people believe these signs and wonders will happen on this land, so there will be no excuse for disbelief.
This is so that anyone who believes can be saved, while those who choose not to believe will face a fair judgment; if they are condemned, they do so to themselves.
Now remember, remember, my brothers, that those who perish do so because of their own actions; and anyone who does wrong does it to themselves. You are free; you have the ability to choose for yourselves. God has given you knowledge and has made you free.
He has given you the ability to distinguish between good and evil, enabling you to choose between life or death; you can do good and be restored to goodness, or you can choose evil and have evil restored to you.
