Many people listened to the words of Samuel, the Lamanite, as he spoke from the city walls. Those who believed his message searched for Nephi and, upon finding him, admitted their wrongdoings and asked to be baptized by the Lord.
However, those who rejected Samuel's words became furious with him. They threw stones and shot arrows at him while he stood on the wall, but the Spirit of the Lord protected him so that they couldn't hit him.
Seeing that they could not strike him, even more people came to believe his message and went to Nephi to be baptized.
Nephi was busy baptizing and prophesying, urging the people to repent. He performed signs and miracles among them so they would recognize that Christ was coming soon.
He told them about events that were going to happen soon so that they would remember these things and believe when they occurred. So many who believed Samuel sought Nephi to be baptized, coming with repentance for their sins.
Most of the people, however, did not accept Samuel's words. When they realized they couldn't harm him, they called to their leaders, demanding that he be captured, saying he was possessed by a devil, which explained why their attempts to hit him failed.
As they approached to seize him, he jumped down from the wall and escaped to his homeland, where he continued to preach and prophesy to his people.
He was never seen again among the Nephites, and that was the state of the people.
The eighty-sixth year of the judges' reign over the Nephites came to a close.
The eighty-seventh year also concluded, with most of the people remaining prideful and wicked, while a smaller group acted more carefully in the sight of God.
The same conditions existed in the eighty-eighth year of their reign.
Little changed among the people, except that they became increasingly hardened in their wrongdoing, doing more that went against God's commandments in the eighty-ninth year.
Then, in the ninetieth year of the judges' reign, numerous signs and wonders were given to the people, and the words of the prophets began to come true.
Angels appeared to wise men, bringing them joyful news; thus, that year, the scriptures began to be fulfilled.
Yet, most of the people hardened their hearts, except for the most faithful among the Nephites and Lamanites. They began to rely on their own strength and wisdom, claiming:
They might have guessed correctly about some things, but all the miraculous events spoken of could not possibly happen.
They started arguing with each other, saying:
It doesn’t make sense for someone like Christ to come; if he really is the Son of God, as has been said, why doesn’t he show himself to us just like he will to those in Jerusalem?
Why doesn’t he reveal himself here as well as in Jerusalem?
They believed that this idea was a false tradition passed down from their ancestors, meant to make them expect some significant event that would not occur among them but in a distant place they didn't know, thus keeping them in ignorance because they could not witness it.
By the deceitful methods of the devil, some great mystery might be created that they wouldn’t be able to comprehend, which would keep them submissive to the teachings of others. They relied on them to instruct them in the truth, allowing themselves to remain uninformed throughout their lives.
Many other foolish and vain thoughts filled the people's hearts, troubling them greatly, as Satan stirred them constantly toward wrongdoing. He spread lies and conflicts across the land to harden their hearts against what was good and what was to come.
Even with the signs and wonders performed by the Lord's people and the many miracles they witnessed, Satan managed to seize control of the hearts of the people throughout the land.
This marked the end of the ninetieth year of the judges' reign over the Nephites.
Thus concluded the book of Helaman, according to the records kept by Helaman and his sons.
