In the forty-second year of the judges’ rule, after Moronihah had restored peace between the Nephites and Lamanites, there was no one available to take the position of chief judge; so arguments arose again among the people about who should fill this important role.
Helaman, the son of Helaman, was chosen by the people to become the chief judge.
However, Kishkumen, who had killed Pahoran, plotted to also kill Helaman, supported by his gang, who had agreed to keep their wrongdoings secret.
There was a man named Gadianton, who was very skilled with words and had a talent for carrying out secretive acts of murder and theft; as a result, he became the leader of Kishkumen’s group.
Gadianton flattered Kishkumen and his gang, promising that if they made him chief judge, he would give them power and authority among the people; thus, Kishkumen planned to eliminate Helaman.
As Kishkumen moved towards the chief judge's chair to attack Helaman, one of Helaman's servants, who had been out during the night and learned of their schemes in disguise, encountered Kishkumen.
The servant gave Kishkumen a sign, and Kishkumen revealed his intention to the servant, asking him to lead him to the chief judge’s seat so he could murder Helaman.
Once the servant understood Kishkumen’s true intentions to kill and that those in his gang shared the same goals of murder, robbery, and gaining power—this being their covert plan—the servant suggested they proceed to the judgment-seat.
Kishkumen was very pleased, thinking he could achieve his aim, but as they headed to the judgment-seat, the servant of Helaman stabbed Kishkumen through the heart, killing him instantly. He then ran to tell Helaman everything he had seen and done.
Helaman sent out a call to capture this group of robbers and secret assassins so they could be punished according to the law.
However, when Gadianton noticed that Kishkumen did not return, he feared for his own safety; as a result, he ordered his gang to follow him. They secretly fled into the wilderness, making them impossible to locate when Helaman sent out a search.
More will be said about Gadianton later. This marks the end of the forty-second year of judges' rule over the Nephites.
In the conclusion of this book, you will see that Gadianton caused the downfall, indeed almost the complete destruction, of the Nephite people.
I am not referring to the conclusion of the book of Helaman, but to the end of the book of Nephi, from which I have gathered all the accounts I have written.
