The Book of Mormon is a big ol’ book of holy writ, kinda like the Bible, ya know? It tells all ’bout how God interacted with folks who used to live in the Americas and packs the whole shebang of the everlasting gospel.
A whole mess of ancient prophets wrote this here book, inspired by the spirit of prophecy and revelations, I reckon. They put their words down on some shiny gold plates, and a fella named Mormon, who liked to write history, kinda summarized it all. The record tells the tale of two mighty civilizations. One of 'em made its way from Jerusalem way back in 600 B.C., and split into two groups called the Nephites and Lamanites. The other bunch came way earlier when the Lord threw a wrench in everyone's speech at Babel. Folks call that group the Jaredites. After thousands of years, they all got wiped out, ‘cept for the Lamanites, and they’re part of the ancestors of the American Indians.
Now, the big highlight in the Book of Mormon is when the Lord Jesus Christ done came and ministered to the Nephites right after He rose from the dead. It lays out the gospel teachings, maps out the salvation plan, and tells folks what they gotta do to find peace in this life and get eternal salvation when this one’s done.
Once Mormon finished up his writings, he handed them over to his boy Moroni, who added a couple of his own thoughts before hiding those plates up on the Hill Cumorah. Then on September 21, 1823, that same Moroni, now all glorified and resurrected, popped up in front of the Prophet Joseph Smith, givin' him some instructions ‘bout that ancient record and how it was supposed to be translated into English.
Eventually, them plates made their way to Joseph Smith, and he translated 'em by God’s gift and power. Nowadays, that record's out there in all sorts of languages, standin' as a new witness that Jesus Christ is the Son of the living God, and that all y’all who come to Him and follow the rules of His gospel can be saved.
Now, ‘bout this record, the Prophet Joseph Smith said, “I told the brethren that the Book of Mormon was the most correct of any book on this here earth, and it’s the keystone of our religion. A fella could get closer to God by stickin’ to its teachings than by readin’ any other book.”
On top of Joseph Smith, the Lord made sure eleven other folks got to see them gold plates for themselves, bein’ special witnesses of the truth and divine nature of the Book of Mormon. Their written testimonies are right here as “The Testimony of Three Witnesses” and “The Testimony of Eight Witnesses.”
We’re askin’ folks everywhere to crack open the Book of Mormon, think on the message it brings, and then ask God, the Eternal Father, in the name of Christ if that book's the real deal. Those who go down that path and ask with faith will get a personal testimony of its truth and divinity by the power of the Holy Ghost. (See Moroni 10:3–5.)
Folks who get that heavenly witness from the Holy Spirit will also come to know, by that same power, that Jesus Christ is the world’s Savior, that Joseph Smith is His revelator and prophet in these last days, and that The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is the Lord’s kingdom back up and runnin’ on earth, gettin’ ready for the Second Coming of the Messiah.
