Well now, let me tell ya 'bout Lehi and his sweet wife Sariah, and their four boys, startin' with the oldest, that's Laman, then Lemuel, Sam, an’ last but not least, Nephi. The Good Lord warned Lehi to skedaddle outta Jerusalem 'cause he was tellin' folks ‘bout their sins, and they was fixin’ to take his life. So, he packed up his kin and took a three-day trip into the wild. Nephi got his brothers and headed back to Jerusalem lookin’ for the records of the Jews. They went through a heap of troubles. They took some of Ishmael's girls to be their wives, grabbed their families, and took off into the wilderness. They had themselves a tough time out there. They wandered all over and finally came to some big ol’ waters. Nephi’s brothers turned their backs on him, but he put ‘em in their place and even built himself a ship. They named that spot Bountiful. Then they sailed across them waters to the promised land, and that's just the way it went down, accordin’ to Nephi; or, in simple terms, I, Nephi, wrote this down myself.
Now, Nephi kicked off his story, and his dad Lehi had himself a vision where he saw a fiery pillar and read from a prophecy book. He lifted up his voice to God, talkin’ ‘bout the Messiah comin’ and how Jerusalem was gonna be in big trouble if folks didn’t change their ways. Those Jews weren't too happy with him neither. This here was all 'round 600 B.C.
Well, I’m Nephi, born to some real decent folks, so I picked up a bit of knowledge from my daddy. I’ve seen my share of hard times, but the Lord sure has favored me plenty; I know a whole lot ‘bout the goodness and mysteries of God, so I figured it was high time I put down what I been up to.
Yep, I'm writin' this here record usin’ my daddy's tongue, mixin’ in the Jews’ learnin’ and that ol’ Egyptian lingo.
And lemme tell ya, I know my record here’s as true as Sunday mornin’, writin’ it all out with my own two hands, accordin’ to what I’ve come to know.
So, it was in the first year under Zedekiah, the king of Judah, (my dad Lehi had lived in Jerusalem his whole life); and that same year, a whole mess of prophets started preachin' to folks that they better repent, or else that great city Jerusalem was gonna be toast.
Well, my daddy Lehi, he was out prayin’ to the Lord, pourin’ out all his heart for his people.
Then, it happened, as he was prayin', a pillar of fire showed up sittin’ on a rock right in front of him; he saw and heard a whole lot, and it shook him right down to his boots.
Next thing ya know, he went back to his house in Jerusalem, fell onto his bed, feelin’ mighty overcome by the Spirit and all the things he had just witnessed.
And bein’ all wrapped up in the Spirit, he got swept away in a vision; he saw the heavens opened up and thought he spotted God sittin’ on His throne, surrounded by a mountain of angels singin’ and givin’ praise to Him.
Then, he saw One comin’ down from the heavenly skies, glimmerin’ brighter than the hot sun at noon.
And there were twelve others right behind Him, shinier than the stars in the night sky.
They touched down and walked all over the earth; the first one came right up to my daddy, handed him a book, and told him to read it.
So, as he read, he got filled to the brim with the Spirit of the Lord.
He read loud and clear: “Whoa, whoa, to Jerusalem, ‘cause I’ve seen all your wickedness!” Yep, my father read a bunch about Jerusalem ‘bout how it’s gonna be destroyed, and the folks there; many are gonna meet their end by the sword, and a whole bunch will be taken on off to Babylon.
Now, when my daddy had read and seen all them miraculous things, he couldn’t help but shout out to the Lord; somethin’ like: “Your works are truly grand, O Lord God Almighty! Your throne’s up high in the heavens, and your power, goodness, and mercy are everywhere on this earth; and since you’re merciful, you won’t let folks who come to you just fade away!”
And that’s how my daddy spoke when he was givin’ praise to his God; his soul was just overflowin’ with joy ‘cause of all the things he had seen, yeah, all that the Lord showed him.
Now, me, Nephi, I ain't goin’ through every little thing my daddy wrote down, ‘cause he jotted down a whole heap of stuff he saw in visions and dreams, and many other things he prophesied and said to his kids, which I ain't gonna cover in full.
But I’m fixin’ to tell ya ‘bout my own doings. So, I’m makin’ a shorter version of my dad’s record, on some plates I made myself; once I’ve shortened his record up, then I’ll start on my own life story.
So, I want y’all to know, after the Lord showed my daddy Lehi all these incredible things ‘bout Jerusalem's destruction, he went right out among the people, started prophesyin’ and tellin’ them what he saw and heard.
But those Jews? They laughed him off ‘cause of what he was sayin’; he really did pointed out their wicked ways and how they were full of abominations; and he was sayin’ what he saw and heard showed clear as day about the Messiah comin’ and the world bein’ saved.
And when the Jews caught wind of all this, they got real mad at him; just like those old prophets they used to toss out, stone, and kill; they even set their sights on takin’ his life. But I, Nephi, am here to show ya that the tender mercies of the Lord are for all those He’s chosen, ‘cause of their faith, to make ‘em powerful enough for deliverance.
