Well now, lemme tell ya what Nephi's sayin' here 'bout all that went down.
So, I reckon I’m gonna note down all the happenings on these here plates ‘bout what I've been up to, my reign, and my work; and I need to y’all to know a bit ‘bout my daddy and my brothers too.
Well shoot, it happened after my daddy wrapped up splainin' that dream of his, and was givin’ his folks a good talkin’ to about bein’ real careful, he started jawin’ ‘bout the Jews—
How they’d end up all wiped out, especially that big ol’ city Jerusalem, and a whole mess of ‘em would get taken off to Babylon, just like the Lord’s got it planned. But they gonna come back, and yes-siree, get brought back outta captivity; and once they’re back, they gonna have their rightful land again.
Yup, a good six hundred years after Daddy skedaddled outta Jerusalem, the Lord God’s gonna raise up a prophet among them Jews—even a Messiah, or a Savior of the whole dang world.
He also chatted ‘bout the prophets—a heap of ‘em had given witness to these things about that there Messiah, or the Redeemer of the world.
So, y’all see, all mankind was in a real bad spot, lost and down in the dumps, and it ain't gonna change unless they lean on that Redeemer.
And he said there’d be a prophet comin’ before the Messiah, to get things ready for the Lord—
Yep, this fella's gonna stomp out into the wilderness yellin’: Get ready for the Lord, and make sure his paths are all straight and tidy; ‘cause there’s one amongst you that y’all don’t even know yet; he's way more powerful than me, and I ain't even fit to untie his shoelaces. Daddy yapped on quite a bit ‘bout this.
And my daddy said he’d be baptizin’ over in Bethabara, beyond the Jordan; also, he’d be usin’ water for it—all ready to dunk the Messiah in that water.
And once he dunks the Messiah, he’s gonna see and testify that he went and baptized the Lamb of God, who’s takin’ away all the sins in the world.
Then, not long after my daddy said all this, he started talkin’ to my brothers ‘bout that gospel that’d be preachin’ to the Jews, and how the Jews were losin’ their faith. After they go and kill the Messiah who’s comin’, he’d shuck off this mortal coil, rise up from the dead, and make himself known to the Gentiles by the Holy Ghost.
Yep, Daddy went on ‘bout the Gentiles and the house of Israel, like they’re compared to an olive tree, with branches gettin’ clipped off and scattered all over the world.
So, he said we gotta be all on the same page headin’ to the promised land, fulfillin' the word of the Lord that we’d be scattered all over this here earth.
And after they get scattered, they gonna be pulled back together again; or, better yet, once the Gentiles get all the goodness of the Gospel, the natural branches of that olive tree, or the leftover folks from Israel, gonna be put back in there, and they’ll finally know who the real Messiah is, their Lord and Redeemer.
So, in this way, my daddy prophesied and had a good ol' talk with my brothers, and he shared a whole bunch more stuff that I ain't writin' down here; just what seemed fitting for me to jot down in this book.
And all this stuff I been talkin' ‘bout happened while my daddy was livin’ in a tent out in the valley of Lemuel.
Then after I, Nephi, had listened to every word my daddy spoke ‘bout the things he saw in that vision, and all that he said by the power of the Holy Ghost—which he got through faith in the Son of God, who’s the Messiah comin’—I, Nephi, wanted just as much to see, hear, and know these things by the Holy Ghost’s power, which is a gift from God to anyone who’s serious about searchin’ for him, just like folks did back in the day and even now.
‘Cause he ain’t changed a lick from yesterday, today, or forever; and the way’s all laid out for folks from the very beginning, if they just repent and come to him.
‘Cause if ya really lookin’ for it, you gonna find it; and the mysteries of God gonna be revealed to ya, by the power of the Holy Ghost, just like it was back then and how it’ll be in times to come; so, the way of the Lord’s like a big ol’ circle that just keeps on goin’.
So, y’all remember this, man, ‘cause for all you do, you gonna have to face judgment.
If you’ve been up to no good during your time here, then you gonna find yourself unclean before God’s judgment seat; and ain't no unclean thing sittin’ with God; so, best believe, you gonna be cast off for good.
And the Holy Ghost gives me the authority to talk about all this, and I ain't gonna back down from it.
