Well, let me tell ya, after I got real curious ‘bout what my daddy had seen, I figured the good Lord could let me in on it too. So, I was sittin’ there, deep in thought, when I got snatched away in the Spirit of the Lord, yes sir, to a mighty tall mountain, one I ain't never laid eyes on before, and sure ‘nough never set foot on either.
Then the Spirit asked me, "What in the world do ya want?"
And I told ‘em, "I wanna see them things my daddy laid eyes on."
The Spirit hit me back with, "Do ya really believe your father saw that tree he talked ‘bout?"
And I replied, "Yep, you know I believe every word my dad said."
Then right after I said that, the Spirit shouted real loud, saying, "Hallelujah to the Lord, the most high God; 'cause He’s God over all the earth, above everything else. And bless your heart, Nephi, 'cause you got faith in the Son of the most high God; you’re gonna see what you been askin’ for."
Then the Spirit went on to say, "Looky here, this is gonna be your sign; after you see that tree with the fruit your father tasted, you’re gonna see a man comin’ down from heaven, and you’ll bear witness; and after you see him, you’ll know he’s the Son of God."
Well, the Spirit told me, "Look!" And when I looked, I saw this tree, and it was just like the one my father saw; oh, the beauty of it was beyond compare, and it shone whiter than any snow you ever seen.
After I laid eyes on that tree, I said to the Spirit, "Well, you showed me a tree that’s more precious than anything else."
And he asked me, "What do you want?"
I said, "I wanna know what it means—talkin’ to him just like you would another fella; I could tell he was in the shape of a man, but I knew he was the Spirit of the Lord; and he talked to me just like a buddy would."
Then, the Spirit said, "Look!" And I turned to see him, but he was gone from my sight.
Then I looked around and saw the big city of Jerusalem, along with a few other towns. I noticed Nazareth, and in that town, I caught sight of this virgin, and she was just the prettiest thing you ever laid eyes on.
Then the heavens opened up, and an angel came down and stood right in front of me, sayin’, "Nephi, what do you see?"
I told him, "I see a virgin, more beautiful than any other."
And he asked me, "Do ya know ‘bout the condescension of God?"
I said, "I know He loves His children; but truth be told, I don’t fully get the meaning of everything."
He said, "Well, that virgin you're seein' is the mother of the Son of God, in the flesh."
Then I saw her taken away in the Spirit; and after some time, the angel said to me, "Look!"
And I turned to see the virgin again, holdin’ a baby in her arms.
And the angel told me, "Take a gander at the Lamb of God, the Son of the Eternal Father! Do ya know what that tree your daddy saw means?"
I replied, "Yeah, it’s the love of God, spreadin’ through the hearts of folks; that makes it the most desired of all things."
And he said, "That’s right, it’s the most joyful thing for the soul."
After he said that, he told me, "Look!" I looked, and saw the Son of God walkin' among the people; and I saw a whole crowd fall down at his feet, worshipin’ him.
Then I saw that rod of iron my father talked about, and it was the word of God leadin’ to the fountain of livin’ waters, or to the tree of life; and those waters, they stand for God’s love; and I saw that tree of life stood for God’s love too.
The angel said again, "Look and see the condescension of God!"
So, I looked and saw the Redeemer of the world, just like my daddy mentioned; and I also saw the prophet who’d prepare the way for him. The Lamb of God went on and got baptized; and after that, I witnessed the heavens open, and the Holy Ghost came down from heaven, restin’ on him like a dove.
Then I watched him ministerin’ to the people, all in power and glory; and folks were gatherin’ ‘round to hear him; but I also saw them throw him out.
And I caught sight of twelve more folk followin' him. It happened that they were taken away in the Spirit right in front of me, and I couldn’t see ‘em no more.
Then the angel spoke to me again, sayin’, "Look!" And I looked, and behold, the heavens opened up again, and angels were comin’ down to the people; and they were ministerin’ to ‘em.
Then he said to me again, "Look!" And I turned and saw the Lamb of God walking among the folks. I saw a whole bunch of people sick and afflicted with all kinds of diseases, havin’ devils and bad spirits; and the angel showed me all those things. They got healed by the power of the Lamb of God, and those devils and bad spirits were cast out.
Then the angel spoke to me again, sayin’, "Look!" And I looked and saw the Lamb of God being taken by the people; yes sir, the Son of the everlasting God was judged by the world; and I witnessed it and can testify.
I, Nephi, saw him lifted up on that cross and slain for the sins of the world.
After he was slain, I saw the multitudes of folks gathered ‘round, ready to fight against the apostles of the Lamb; and that’s what the twelve were called by the angel of the Lord.
The earth’s folks were all gathered up; and I laid my eyes on a big fancy building, just like the one my father saw. And the angel of the Lord spoke to me again, sayin’, "Look at the world and its wisdom; see, the house of Israel has come together to fight the twelve apostles of the Lamb."
Then I saw and can testify that that big fancy building was the pride of the world; and it fell, oh boy, it fell hard. And the angel of the Lord spoke to me again, sayin’, "That’s how all nations, kindreds, tongues, and people gonna be destroyed if they fight against the twelve apostles of the Lamb."
