Well, it all started when the angel told me, "Hey there, take a gander at yer folks and yer kin." So I looked around and saw that land of promise, and there were folks everywhere, I’m tellin’ ya, like grains of sand out by the beach.
Then I noticed a whole bunch of folks fixin’ to battle each other; there was wars and all sorts of talk about ‘em, with some mighty fierce fights goin’ on among my people.
Next thing, I witnessed generations goin’ by, all wrapped up in their fussin’ and fightin’ on that land; I saw so many towns, I swear, I stopped tryin’ to count ‘em.
Then I caught sight of this thick mist hangin’ over the land of promise, and I saw lightnin’ flashin’, heard thundering, felt the ground shakin’, and heard all kinds of ruckus. The earth cracked and the rocks broke apart; mountains were fallin’ apart and the flatlands got busted up real good. I saw places all sunk down and others burnin’ up, and some just dropped to the ground ‘cause it was shakin’ so bad.
After all that, I noticed the dark mist liftin’ off the earth, and wouldn’t ya know it, I saw a bunch of folks who hadn’t gone down ‘cause the Lord’s mighty judgments hadn’t taken ‘em.
Then I saw the skies open up, and the Lamb of God was comin’ down from heaven; He showed Himself right there.
I also saw and can tell ya that the Holy Ghost came down on twelve other fellas, and they were called by God to do His work.
The angel then spoke to me, sayin’, “Look over yonder at them twelve disciples of the Lamb, they’re picked to help yer family.”
He went on to say, “Y’remember them twelve apostles? Well, they’re the ones who’ll be judgin’ the twelve tribes of Israel; so yer twelve ministers will be under their watch, ‘cause y’all are from the house of Israel.”
And these twelve ministers I beheld will judge yer kin. Let me tell ya, they’re righteous forever; ‘cause of their faith in the Lamb of God, their clothes got made white in His blood.
Then the angel said to me, “Look there!” and I did, and I saw three generations goin’ by in righteousness, and their garments were as white as the Lamb of God. The angel told me, “These folks are white ‘cause of the Lamb’s blood, ‘cause they put their faith in Him.”
I, Nephi, also saw many of the fourth generation passin’ on in righteousness.
Then I saw the folks from the earth all gather together.
The angel said to me again, “Look at yer seed and the seed of yer kin."
I looked and saw that my folks were all clustered up against my kin, and they was all fixin’ to fight.
The angel said to me, “You seen that dirty ol’ fountain your daddy talked about? Yeah, that river he mentioned? Well, its depths are bottomless like hell.”
And the mists of darkness? That’s just the devil’s temptations messin’ with folks’ heads, makin’ ‘em blind and hardenin’ their hearts, leadin’ ‘em off down them wide roads where they end up lost.
And that big fancy building, your dad laid eyes on, it’s just folks’ pride and wild imaginations runnin’ wild. There’s a huge, scary gap between ‘em; kinda like the justice of the Eternal God and the Lamb of God, who the Holy Ghost has been tellin’ folks about since time began.
While the angel was sayin’ all this, I saw that my kin was fightin’ against my folks, just like the angel said. ‘Cause of the pride my folks had, and the devil’s tricks, I saw that my kin was winnin’ over my people.
I beheld how the folks from my kin had beaten my folks; they was movin’ in great numbers ‘cross the land.
Then I spotted ‘em all gathered up, and there was wars and rumors of ‘em all around; among ‘em, I saw many generations just fade away.
The angel said to me, “Look here, they’re gonna fall away into disbelief.”
And it just so happened that after they lost their way, they turned into a dark, no-good, filthy bunch, lazy like and full of all kinds of wickedness.
