Well, let me tell ya, one day, if them Gentiles listen up to the Lamb of God, He’s gonna show Himself right clear to 'em, both in talkin’ and in powerful actions, takin’ away all them things trip ‘em up—
If they don’t harden their hearts against the Lamb of God, they’ll be counted with your kin, the seed of your father; yep, they'll be part of the house of Israel; and they’re gonna be a mighty blessed folks on that promised land forever; they ain't gonna be dragged off into captivity no more; and the house of Israel won’t be left confused again.
And that big ol’ pit, dug by that nasty, abominable church, which was set up by the devil and his little ones, just to lead folks down to hell—yep, that big pit meant to destroy folks will be filled back up by them that dug it, bringin' ‘em to their own end, says the Lamb of God; not just the death of the soul, unless it's thrown into that hell that just don’t quit.
For ya see, this here’s how the devil holds folks captive, and it’s also about God’s justice comin’ down on all them who go about doin’ wickedness and nasty stuff in front of Him.
Then that angel started talkin’ to me, Nephi, sayin': “Ya seen it, if the Gentiles turn their ways, things gonna go well for 'em; and ya know about the Lord's promises to the house of Israel; and ya heard that whoever don’t repent is bound to meet their end.”
So, watch out, Gentiles, if ya end up hardenin’ your hearts against the Lamb of God.
'Cause the time’s comin’, says the Lamb of God, when I’ll be doin’ a mighty fine and marvelous work among folks; a work that’ll last forever, on either side—either gonna convince ‘em to find peace and eternal life, or turn ‘em over to their hard hearts and blind minds, draggin’ ‘em down into captivity and ruin, both in this life and the next, thanks to the devil’s grip, which I’ve mentioned.
And then when the angel had said all that, he asked me: “Ya remember the Father’s promises to the house of Israel?” I said, “Yup, I do.”
And then the angel pointed at that big ol’ church, the mother of all treacheries, started by the devil himself.
And he told me: “Look here, there’s only two churches; one’s the church of the Lamb of God, and the other’s the devil’s church; so, whoever ain’t part of the church of the Lamb is with that great big ol’ church, the mother of all evils; and she’s the whore of the whole earth.”
Next thing I knew, I laid my eyes on that whore of the earth, sittin’ on a mess of waters; she had control over all the earth, across all nations, kin, tongues, and peoples.
Then I saw the church of the Lamb of God, and their numbers were few 'cause of all the wickedness comin’ from that whore sittin’ on them waters; but I also saw that the Lamb’s saints were spread across the entire earth; their reigns were tiny, what with all the wrongdoings from that big ol' whore I was seein’.
Well, I saw that great mother of evils gatherin’ heaps of folks from all over to come together and fight against the Lamb of God.
And I, Nephi, peeped at the power of the Lamb comin’ down on the saints of the church of the Lamb, and on the Lord's covenant folks who were all over the earth; they were loaded up with right livin’ and the power of God shinin’ bright.
Then I noticed the wrath of God was bein’ poured out on that great and abominable church, so much so that wars and murmurs of wars shook up all the nations and kin of the earth.
And when them wars kicked off among all them nation folks belonging to the mother of evils, the angel spoke to me, sayin’: “Look out, the wrath of God’s settin’ in on the mother of harlots; and boy, you’re seein’ all this—
Then, when the day rolls around that the wrath of God spills down on that mother of harlots, that great nasty church of the earth that the devil started, well, on that day, the Father’s work's gonna kick off, preparin’ the way to fulfill His promises He's made to His people from the house of Israel.
Then that angel spoke again, sayin’: “Look!”
So I looked and saw a fella, wearin’ a white robe.
And the angel told me: “There’s one of the twelve apostles of the Lamb.”
Yep, he’s gonna see and write down all these things that’s left; and he’ll also write about the end of the world.
So, what he’s gonna write is straight and true; and guess what, it’s all writ down in that book you saw comin' outta the mouth of that Jew; and when it came outta his mouth, it was clear and pure, and the most precious, easy for folks to understand.
And lookee here, the things that this apostle of the Lamb’s gonna write include lots of stuff you’ve already seen; and the rest of it you’re gonna witness too.
But the stuff you’ll see comin’ up next ain’t for you to write down; ‘cause the Lord God’s got it set up that the apostle of the Lamb’s the one to write those.
Plus, there’s others who’ve seen everything too, and they’ve written to that effect; and it’s all sealed up to come out in their good time, pure as can be, according to the truth in the Lamb, for the house of Israel.
And I, Nephi, heard and bear witness that the name of that apostle of the Lamb was John, just like the angel said.
And look, I, Nephi, am told I can’t write the rest of what I saw and heard; so what I’ve written is enough for me; and I reckon I’ve only shared a little bit of what I saw.
And I swear I saw the same things my daddy saw, and the Lord’s angel made all that known to me.
Now I’m fixin’ to wrap up what I’ve said about what I saw while I was swept up in the Spirit; and if not every little thing I witnessed is jotted down, know this: what I’ve wrote is true. And that’s how it is. Amen.
