Well, it just so happened that after I, Nephi, got all caught up in the Spirit and seen a whole mess of things, I made my way back to my daddy's tent.
So, I looked over and saw my brothers gettin’ all worked up and arguin’ 'bout what my daddy had been yappin’ about.
Now, lemme tell ya, he sure talked a heap of big stuff to 'em, but it was hard to make sense of unless a feller took it straight to the Lord; but since their hearts were all hard as rocks, they didn't bother lookin’ to Him like they shoulda.
And here I was, real bothered 'bout how hard-headed they were, and also 'bout the wild things I had seen, knowin’ that they was gonna happen ’cause folks were just as wicked as they come.
And I got all overwhelmed by my troubles, thinkin’ my troubles was bigger than anything else, mainly ‘cause of what happened to my people; I had seen their downfall, ya know?
But after I found some strength, I turned to my brothers, wantin’ to know why they was fussin’ so much.
They said to me: We just can't make heads or tails of what our daddy was talkin’ about with them there olive tree branches and them Gentiles.
And I asked 'em: Well, have y’all asked the Lord ‘bout it?
They told me: Nope, we ain't; it seems like the Lord ain’t spillin’ the beans to us on that.
So I said: How come y’all don’t keep the Lord’s commandments? How come y’all gonna perish 'cause your hearts are so hard?
Don’t y’all remember what the Lord has said? If y’all don’t harden your hearts and ask me in faith, really believein’ that you’ll get it, and put in the effort to keep my commandments, I promise y’all these things’ll be revealed to ya.
I’m tellin’ ya, our daddy said the house of Israel’s like an olive tree, blessed by the Spirit of the Lord that was in him; and just look at us, we ain't split off from the house of Israel, we’re part of it, ain't we?
Now, when our daddy talked about bringin’ them natural branches back in through the fullness of the Gentiles, what he meant was that in the last days, when our descendants are swimmin’ in doubt for a long spell after the Messiah shows up in the flesh to folks, then the fullness of the gospel of the Messiah will come to the Gentiles, then back to what’s left of our folks—
And on that day, them left behind will realize they’re from the house of Israel, and they’re the Lord’s covenant people; and then they’ll really know their ancestors and the gospel of their Redeemer, which was shared with their daddies by Him; and that's how they'll come to know their Redeemer and understand His teachings, so they can find their way to Him and be saved.
And on that day, don’t y’all reckon they'll be shoutin’ and givin’ thanks to their eternal God, their rock and their rescue? Yep, on that day, won't they be drawin’ strength and good nourishment from the real vine? Will they not wander into the true fold of God?
Well, let me tell ya, yes sir, they sure will be remembered again among the house of Israel; they’ll be grafted back in, bein’ a natural branch of that olive tree, into the real olive tree.
And that’s where our daddy was goin’ with his talk; he means it’s not gonna happen 'til after they get scattered by the Gentiles; and it’ll come through them Gentiles, so the Lord can show off His power to them, ‘cause He’ll be rejected by the Jews or the house of Israel.
Now, our daddy ain't just talkin’ ‘bout our folks alone; he's got all the house of Israel in mind, pointin’ to the promise that’ll come to pass in the last days; that promise the Lord gave to our daddy Abraham, sayin’: Through your seed, all the folks on this earth will be blessed.
And I gotta say, I talked a whole lot to them about this stuff; yep, I went on ‘bout the comeback of the Jews in the last days.
And I recounted to them what Isaiah was sayin’ about the Jews’ restoration; and once they're back, they won't be confounded no more, nor scattered again. It came to pass that I said a whole bunch to my brothers, gettin’ ‘em all calmed down so they’d humble themselves before the Lord.
Then they spoke up to me again, askin’: What does this dream our daddy had mean? What’s up with that tree he saw?
And I told ‘em: It was a picture of the tree of life.
They asked, what’s that iron rod our daddy saw that led to the tree?
And I said that was the word of God; anyone who listens closely to that word and holds on tight won’t ever be lost; nothin’ that tempts ‘em or the devil’s missiles can take 'em away into darkness and destruction.
So I, Nephi, told ‘em straight to pay attention to the word of the Lord; I put all my heart into it, beggin’ ‘em with every bit of strength I had, to remember the word of God and keep His commandments all the time.
They asked me: What’s that river of water our daddy saw?
And I responded that water my daddy saw was nasty; he was so caught up in other thoughts that he didn’t see how filthy that water was.
I told 'em it was a terrible chasm, separatin’ the wicked from the tree of life and from the saints of God.
I said it was a picture of that awful hell, which an angel told me was made for the wicked.
And I mentioned that our daddy had seen how God’s justice splits the wicked from the righteous; and its brightness was like a hot flame, risin’ up to God forever and ever, with no end in sight.
Then they asked me: Does this mean folks will have bodily torment in this life, or does it refer to what happens to the soul after this life, or is it about the temporary stuff?
And I said to them that it shows things both temporary and spiritual; 'cause the day’s a-comin’ when they gotta stand before God to be judged for what they done, even the actions taken by their bodies during their time here.
So if they up and die in their wickedness, they gotta be cut off from the things pertaining to righteousness, and stand before God to get judged; if their works were all filthy, then they gotta be filthy; and if they’re filthy, it just means they ain’t gonna be livin’ in the kingdom of God; if so, then the kingdom of God must be filthy too.
But listen here, I’m tellin’ y’all, the kingdom of God ain’t filthy, and no unclean thing can enter there; and that means there’s gotta be a place for all that filthiness.
And sure enough, there’s a place made for them, yep, that awful hell I been talkin’ about, and the devil’s the one who set that up; so the final spot for folk’s souls is either in the kingdom of God or gettin’ kicked out ‘cause of that justice I mentioned.
That’s why the wicked get turned away from the righteous, and from that tree of life whose fruit is the most precious and desirable of all fruits; yep, it’s the greatest gift God has to offer. And that’s how I laid it all out for my brothers. Amen.
