Well now, lemme tell ya, after I, Nephi, wrapped up talkin’ to my brothers, they turned to me and said: You sure got a way of givin’ us some tough news, things we just can’t handle.
So I replied, “I know I've said some mighty harsh things 'bout the wicked folks, just spillin' the truth; I’ve lifted up the good folks, tellin’ ‘em they’ll get their just rewards come judgment day; but the guilty ones, they just can’t take the truth, ‘cause it cuts ‘em right to the heart.”
Now listen here, my brothers, if y’all were righteous and open to the truth, walkin’ straight with God, you wouldn’t be complainin’ ‘bout the truth, sayin’, “You got it out for us with all these hard words.”
Then I, Nephi, put in a good word to my brothers, makin’ sure they kept the Lord’s commandments with a whole lotta effort.
And wouldn’t you know it, they humbled themselves before the Lord; I was feelin’ pretty good and hopeful that they’d stick to the straight and narrow.
All this chit-chat went down while our daddy was livin’ in a tent down in the valley he liked to call Lemuel.
So then, I, Nephi, went and married one of Ishmael’s daughters; my brothers did the same, and Zoram, well, he grabbed the eldest daughter of Ishmael too.
You see, my daddy had checked off all the boxes on the Lord’s to-do list for him, and bless my heart, I, Nephi, received major blessings from the Lord too.
Then one night, the voice of the Lord came to my daddy, tellin’ him to pack up his things come morning ‘cause we were headin’ into the wilderness.
When daddy rose up the next mornin’, and stepped outside the tent, he was mighty surprised to find a shiny round ball made of fine brass sittin’ there; and inside that ball were two spindly things pointin’ the way we needed to go in the wilderness.
So we gathered up all the stuff we could carry into the wild, takin’ along every bit of food the Lord had provided, includin’ seeds of every sort for plantin’.
Next thing you know, we took our tents and set off into the wilderness, crossin’ the river Laman.
We trekked on for about four days, mostly headin’ south-southeast, then we pitched our tents again and named the spot Shazer.
After that, we grabbed our bows and arrows and headed out into the wild to hunt some grub for our families; and once we stocked up, we returned to our loved ones at Shazer. Then we hit the trail again, stickin’ to the most fertile parts of the wilderness near the Red Sea.
We traveled for what felt like a heap of days, huntin’ the whole way with our bows, arrows, rocks, and slings.
We followed that ball’s instructions, keepin’ us in the best parts of the wild.
After a bunch of days on the road, we set up our tents for a spell, so we could catch our breath and find some food for our crew.
So there I was, Nephi, out huntin’ when, bless my luck, I broke my bow made of fine steel; my brothers got real mad 'cause we didn’t bring back any food.
And we returned empty-handed to our families, and folk were tired and hungry from the travelin’, sufferin’ real bad ‘cause of the lack of grub.
Next thing you know, Laman, Lemuel, and the sons of Ishmael started complainin’ something fierce, grumblin’ ‘bout the hardships of bein’ out in the wild; even my daddy started grumblin’ at the Lord his God—folks were all super sorrowful, murmur in’ and all.
Well, I, Nephi, was feelin’ the weight of those struggles with my brothers ‘cause I lost my bow, and theirs couldn’t shoot anymore neither; things got real tough ‘cause we just couldn’t find any food.
So I spoke my piece to my brothers, tryin’ to get ‘em to soften their hearts, ‘cause they was just complainin’ ‘gainst the Lord again.
There I was, Nephi, whittlin’ a bow from some wood, and makin’ an arrow from a straight stick; I armed myself with my bow and arrow, and I even had a sling and some stones. Looked at my daddy and asked, “Where should I go to find us some food?”
He started askin’ the Lord, ‘cause they’d humbled themselves after I put my heart into my words.
Then the voice of the Lord came to my daddy and brought him back down to earth for all the grumblin’ he’d been doin’, leavin’ him in some deep sorrow.
And the voice of the Lord said to him, “Look at that ball and pay close attention to what’s written on it.”
When my daddy saw what was on that ball, he got scared and trembled all over, and so did my brothers, the sons of Ishmael, and our wives too.
I, Nephi, saw that the pointers on the ball worked according to the faith, energy, and attention we put into it. 
There was also some new stuff written on it that was clear as day, givin’ us insight on the Lord’s ways; and that writin’ changed from time to time just like our faith and hard work did too. So ya see, little old things can lead to big ol’ outcomes when it comes to the Lord.
Then I, Nephi, climbed my way up to the top of the mountain, just like the ball told me to.
And I went out and hunted some wild game, gettin’ us food for our families.
Finally, I came back to the tents, draggin’ the beasts I’d caught; and when they saw I brought home some food, their joy was off the charts! They humbled themselves before the Lord and gave thanks.
Then we took off again, followin’ pretty much the same path we started down; after many more days on the road, we set up our tents again to rest for a bit.
And wouldn’t ya know it, Ishmael passed away, and we buried him where the place is called Nahom.
Now, the daughters of Ishmael were all torn up, moanin’ lost their daddy and all the hard times we faced in the wilderness; they started gripin’ about my daddy for leadin’ ‘em off from Jerusalem, sayin’ dejectedly, “Our daddy’s gone; we’ve been wanderin’ for so long, sufferin’ from hunger, thirst, and bein’ worn out; and after all this, we’re just gonna starve out here in the wild.”
So they griped at my daddy and me too; they wanted to pack it up and head back to Jerusalem.
Laman got all riled up and started whisperin’ to Lemuel and Ishmael’s boys: “Hey, let’s just take out dad and that brother Nephi who thinks he can boss us around with his big talkin’.”
Now, he was claimin’ that the Lord had spoken to him and angels were visitin’ him. But lemme tell ya, we knew he was lyin’ through his teeth; he tells us this stuff and pulls all these tricks, tryin’ to lead us off into some strange wilds, hopin’ to make himself the king and run the whole shoindig, just doin’ whatever he wants with us. And that’s how my brother Laman got everyone all riled up.
Well, the Lord was with us, and the voice of the Lord came and said a bunch of firm words to them, chastening ‘em real good; once they got the lowdown from the Lord, they calmed down, turned away their anger, and repented of their sins, so the Lord blessed us once more with food, so we wouldn't go hungry.
