Well, it was all well and good that we took off on our journey through the wild country again; we headed on almost due east from then on. We sure did slog through a heap of troubles out there in the wilderness, and our gals had them babies right there in the wild.
And bless our hearts, the Lord showered us with blessings so much so, that even while we was chompin’ on raw meat out there, the womenfolk were givin’ plenty of milk to their young 'uns and were strong as oxen. They started haul’n their loads without a peep of complaint.
So, we can see right clear that God’s commandments gotta be followed. If folks keep to His ways, He takes care of 'em, gives 'em strength, and sets 'em up with whatever they need to get done what He’s asked; and sure enough, He provided for us while we were kickin’ around out in the wilderness.
And we did roam around there for a good spell, about eight years if I’m not missin’ my guess.
Then we found us a land we called Bountiful, ‘cause it had so much fruit and some wild honey; all of it was laid out nice-like by the Lord so we wouldn't just up and perish. And we laid eyes on the sea, which we called Irreantum, which, ya know, means a whole mess of water.
Next thing you know, we pitched our tents by the shoreline; even though we had a heap of troubles and had to deal with hardships we can’t even write down, we was downright joyful once we made it to the coast, callin’ that place Bountiful ‘cause of all the fruit sittin’ around.
Then, after I, Nephi, had been hangin’ around in Bountiful for a good while, I heard the Lord’s voice callin’ me, sayin’: Get up and head up into that there mountain. So, I got up and climbed that mountain, and I called out to the Lord.
And lo and behold, the Lord told me, you gotta build a ship like I’ll show ya, so I can carry your folks across these waters.
So, I asked Him: Lord, where in tarnation am I s'posed to find me some ore to melt down for makin’ tools to build that ship?
And the Lord told me exactly where to go for that ore, so I could whip up some tools.
And I, Nephi, ended up makin’ a bellows outta beast skins to get the fire goin’. Once I had the bellows, I banged two rocks together to spark me some fire.
See, the Lord hadn’t let us make much fire ‘til then, ‘cause while we was wanderin' in that wilderness, He said: I’ll make your food sweet, so ya don’t have to cook it up all fancy.
And I’ll be your light out there in the wild; I’ll pave the way for ya, if ya keep my commandments; so, as long as ya stick to my ways, you’ll head toward that promised land, and you’ll know it’s me leadin’ ya.
Y’all take note, and the Lord also said: Once y’all get to that promised land, you’ll see that I, the Lord, am your God, and I did save ya from bein’ wiped out; yep, I brought ya outta Jerusalem.
So, I, Nephi, made it my business to keep the Lord’s commandments, and I kept pushin’ my kinfolk to be faithful and work hard.
And it came to pass that I made me some tools outta the ore I melted from the rock.
But when my brothers caught wind that I was fixin’ to build a ship, they started grumblin’, sayin’: Ain’t our brother a fool, thinkin’ he can build a ship; yep, he thinks he can cross these mighty waters too.
So my brothers just keep complainin', wishin’ they wouldn’t have to put their backs into it, seein’ as they didn’t believe I could build that ship; they wouldn’t dare believe I was gettin’ guidance from the Lord.
And now, I, Nephi, was really feelin' down 'bout how hard-hearted they were; and when they saw I was gettin’ all sorrowful-like, they just cheered in their hearts, sayin’: We knew ya couldn’t build no ship, ‘cause we knew ya didn’t have good sense; you ain't gonna be able to pull off somethin’ that big.
And they said I was just like our pa, led away by all them foolish ideas floatin’ around in his heart; yep, he done led us outta Jerusalem, and we’ve been wanderin’ in this wilderness for ages; our womenfolk have had to deal with labor, bein’ heavy with child; they’ve born them babies in the wild and suffered through all sorts of troubles, except for dyin’; and it woulda been better if they’d up and died before leavin’ Jerusalem than puttin’ up with all this mess.
Lookee here, all these years we’ve been sufferin’ in the wild, when we coulda been enjoyin’ our stuff and bein’ happy in our inheritance; sure as shootin’, we could’ve been happy.
We know them folks back in Jerusalem were righteous ‘cause they followed God’s laws and commandments per Moses’ teachings; that’s why we reckon they’re the good folks; and our father judged ‘em wrong and took us away ‘cause we wouldn’t listen to his words; and our brother is just like him. And they was a-complainin’ just like that.
And I, Nephi, spoke to them, askin’: Do ya really believe our folks, the Israelites, would’ve been led outta the Egyptians if they hadn’t listened to the Lord?
Ya reckon they’d have gotten outta bondage if the Lord hadn’t told Moses to lead 'em out?
Now, y’know the Israelites was in chains; and they had loads of burdens that was heavy to bear; so it’s gotta be a good thing that they got brought outta bondage.
Now, we all know that the Lord told Moses to do that great work; and y’all remember that by his word, the Red Sea split right open, and they walked through on dry ground?
But the Egyptians? Well, they went down in that sea, ‘cause they were Pharaoh’s army.
And y’all also know they munched on manna out in the wild.
Yeah, and y’all know that Moses, by the Lord’s word which was mighty in him, smote that rock, and out came the water, just so the Israelites could quench their thirst.
Yet, even with all that guidance from the Lord their God, their Redeemer leadin’ ‘em by day and givin’ ‘em light at night, doin’ all sorts of good for ‘em, they went and hardened their hearts and turned a blind eye, revilin’ Moses and the true, livin’ God.
And it came to pass that, just as He said, He destroyed 'em; He led ‘em according to His word, and did all things for them; ain’t nothin’ been done that wasn’t by His word.
And after they crossed the Jordan, He made 'em mighty to drive out them folks from the land, scatterin’ ‘em to their doom.
Now, do y’all think the kiddos in this here promised land, the ones our daddies drove out, were righteous? I’m tellin’ ya, Nah.
Do ya think our fathers would’ve been better than them if they was righteous? I say again, Nah.
See, the Lord don’t favor one flesh over another; the righteous is favored by God. But look at this folks, they done turned down every word from God, and they were ripe for sin; God was mad at ‘em, cursed that land against ‘em, and blessed it for our fathers; He cursed it against 'em for their destruction, and blessed it for our folks to gain power over it.
The Lord made this earth so it would be filled with people, and He made His own kids to have it.
He raises up the good folks, and wipes out the wicked ones.
He leads the righteous to good lands, and the evil, He destroys and curses the land for their sakes.
He’s sittin’ high in the heavens, that’s His throne, and this earth here? That’s just His footstool.
And He loves those who want Him to be their God. He loved our fathers, made a deal with ‘em, yep, even Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob; and He didn’t forget them deals, so He brought 'em outta Egypt.
And He put 'em under His rod out in the wild ‘cause they went and hardened their hearts, just like y’all did; and the Lord had to keep 'em in line ‘cause of their sins. He sent fiery serpents among 'em; once they got bitten, He made a way for ‘em to be healed; all they had to do was look, and because it was so simple, a whole mess of 'em perished.
And they kept hardenin’ their hearts from one time to the next, revilin’ Moses and God; but you know they was led by His unmatched power into that promised land.
Now, after all this, it seems like the time’s come for them to be wicked, ‘bout ripe for judgement; and I reckon they’re on the verge of bein’ destroyed; I know that day’s surely comin’ where they’ll see their end, except for just a handful who’ll be led away into captivity.
So the Lord told my father he needed to take off into the wilderness; and the Jews were lookin’ to end his life; and you folks been lookin’ to do the same; so let’s just say, you’ve got murder in your hearts just like ‘em.
Y’all are quick to do wrong but slow to remember the Lord your God. You’ve seen an angel, you heard him talkin’ to ya; reckon you heard His voice time and again, and He spoke to ya in a whisper, but you got your hearts so hard you couldn’t feel His words; so He’s had to speak to ya like a thunderclap, makin’ the earth shake like it was gonna split apart.
And you know real well that by His mighty word He could make the earth just vanish; and ya know by His word, He could smooth out the rough spots, and break up smooth spots. So, why in the world can’t y’all just soften yer hearts?
My soul’s in anguish ‘cause of y’all, and my heart aches; I’m worried you’re gonna be cast off forever. I’m full up with the Spirit of God, to the point my strength is runnin’ low.
Then it happened that once I said all this, they got all riled up with me, and wanted to toss me into the sea; and as they reached out to grab hold of me, I said: In the name of the Almighty God, I command ya not to lay a finger on me, cause I’m filled up with the power of God, all the way down to my bones; whoever touches me will wither away just like a dried up reed; and in front of God’s power, they’ll be as nothin’.
Then I, Nephi, told 'em they best quit their mumblin’ about their father; and they oughta get to workin’ with me, ‘cause God had commanded me to build that ship.
And I said to 'em: If God said I could do anything, I could do it! If He told me to ask this water to turn to dirt, it’d turn to dirt; and if I said it, it’d happen.
Now, if the Lord has so much power, and has done miracles among folks, how come He can’t show me how to build that ship?
And I, Nephi, went on talkin’ to my brothers so much that they got all confused and couldn’t argue with me; they didn’t even dare to touch me, not even for days on end. They was mighty scared to do that, or they'd wither right in front of me, 'cause the Spirit of God was workin’ hard on 'em.
And the Lord said to me: Go ahead and reach out to your brothers again, and they won’t wither before ya, but I’ll give 'em a mighty shake, says the Lord, so they’ll know I am their God.
So, I stretched out my hand to my brothers, and they didn’t wither; but the Lord shook 'em, just like He said He would.
And they said: We know for sure the Lord’s with ya, ‘cause we felt His power shake us. They fell down before me, about to worship me, but I wouldn’t let it happen, sayin’: I’m your brother, your younger brother; now let’s worship the Lord our God, and honor our parents, so we can have long days in the land the Lord’s gonna give us.
