Well, it happened that we went an' worshiped the Lord, then set off with me, workin' on them fancy ship timbers. The Lord kept givin' me hints on how to shape 'em just right.
Now I, Nephi, I ain't gonna lie, I didn't do things the way them folks been taught, nor did I build that ship like the world woulda done; I built it the way the Lord showed me, so it was far from ordinary.
I was climbin’ that mountain a whole lot, prayin’ to the Lord every chance I got; that’s where He showed me some mighty fine things.
After I wrapped up that ship just like the Lord told me, my brothers took a look and they saw how good it was, just fine craftsmanship, and they humbled themselves once again before the Lord.
And then the Lord's voice rang out to my dad, tellin' us to get up and head down to the ship.
Well, the next mornin', after we got everything ready—fruits, meats from the wild, a heap of honey, and supplies just like the Lord asked—we all headed down to that ship, takin' every last bit we owned, ‘bout each according to their age. So we all packed ourselves down into that ship with our women and kids.
Now my dad had two boys down in that wild—one's name was Jacob, and the other was Joseph.
We all hopped on board that ship, haulin’ our supplies and everything the Lord told us to bring, and we set sail out into that sea towards the promised land.
After bein’ blown around by the wind for quite a few days, my brothers and the sons of Ishmael, along with their wives, started a little shindig—dancin’, singin’, and actin’ real foolish, forgettin’ all about how they came to be there; they got mighty rowdy, that’s for sure.
Well, I, Nephi, got real worried that the Lord might get mad at us and send us to the bottom of the sea ‘cause of our sins, so I started talkin’ to ‘em real serious-like; but they got mighty angry with me, claimin’ they weren’t gonna let their little brother rule over ‘em.
Then Laman and Lemuel grabbed me, tied me up tight, and treated me real rough; but the Lord allowed it to show His strength, fulfillin’ what He said about the wicked.
So after they had me tied up so I couldn’t move a muscle, that fancy compass the Lord set up stopped workin'.
With no idea where to steer, a huge storm kicked up, a downright terrible tempest, and we got pushed back on the water for three whole days; folks were gettin’ real scared, worryin’ they’d drown, but they didn’t untie me.
On the fourth day, after bein’ driven back, that storm got even meaner.
Well, it looked like we was fixin’ to be swallowed up in the sea. After four days of bein’ tossed around, my brothers started seein’ that God’s judgments were upon ‘em, and they’d perish if they didn’t own up to their wrongdoings; so they came to me and loosened the ropes around my wrists, and man, they were swelled up something fierce; my ankles were puffy too, hurtin’ something awful.
But I kept lookin’ up to my God, givin’ Him praise all day long, never grumblin’ ‘bout my troubles.
My dad, Lehi, had said a whole mess of things to ‘em, includin’ the sons of Ishmael; but they was spittin’ out threats at anyone who dared speak for me. And my folks, well, they were old and had been hit with a lot of heartache ‘cause of their kids, and they were layin’ low, even laid up in bed.
Cuz of all that sadness and trouble from my brothers, they were near the end, about to meet their Maker; their grey hairs were gonna be laid down in the dirt, and they was close to slippin’ off into the deep blue.
And Jacob and Joseph, bein' but young ones, needed a lot of food, were feelin’ the weight of their mama’s troubles; and my wife’s tears and prayers, along with my kids, couldn’t melt my brothers' hearts into lettin’ me go.
Ain't nothin' but the power of God, threatenin’ ‘em with destruction, could soften their hearts; so when they saw they was about to be swallowed by the sea, they finally fessed up to their mistakes and untied me.
Well, after they let me loose, I grabbed that compass, and it started workin’ just the way I wanted. I prayed to the Lord, and after I prayed, the winds calmed down, the storm settled, and there was a big ol’ peace.
Then I, Nephi, took the wheel of that ship, and we set our sails once more towards the promised land.
After sailin’ for many days, we finally reached that promised land; we stepped on the ground, set up our tents, and called it the promised land.
Then we got busy with the dirt, plantin’ seeds; we put all the seeds we brought from Jerusalem in the ground. And let me tell ya, they sprouted like crazy; we got blessed real good.
And as we wandered the promised land, we found all kinds of animals in those woods, from cows and oxen to donkeys, horses, goats, and wild critters, all there for our usin’. We also discovered a heapin’ load of ore, gold, silver, and copper.
