Well, reckon it happened that the Good Lord told me to fashion up some plates made of ore, so I could carve on 'em the history of my folks. And on them plates I made, I went ahead and recorded the tale of my daddy, our travels through the wilderness, and my own prophecies too.
Now, I didn’t quite realize at the time when I was makin' these here plates that I'd be told by the Good Lord to do so; so, the record of my dad, his family tree, and most of our adventures in the wild are all scratched onto those first plates I mentioned. So, all them happenings before I got to makin' these plates are really laid out on the original ones.
Once I got them plates done up under command, I, Nephi, received another word that the ministry and prophecies, the most precious parts, oughta be writ on these plates; and whatever was written should be kept for teachin’ my folks who'll live on the land, along with other good reasons the Lord knows about.
So, I, Nephi, went ahead and made another record on them other plates, which tells more about the fights, squabbles, and downfalls of my people. And I done that, plus I instructed my folks on what they oughta do once I was gone; and that these plates should get passed down from one generation to the next, or from one prophet to another, till the Lord gives more commands.
And I’ll be given a proper account of makin' these plates later on; and looky here, I’m carryin’ on just like I said I would; and the reason I do this is so that the holiest things can be kept for the knowledge of my people.
Now, I ain’t writin’ nuthin’ on these plates unless I reckon it’s somethin’ sacred. So, if I screw up, well, they done goofed in the past too; not that I’m makin’ excuses ‘cause of ‘em folks, but I’m just acknowledging the weakness in me, bein' human and all.
Some folks hold some things as mighty important, both for body and soul, while others just brush ‘em off and stomp on ‘em. Yeah, even the Good Lord of Israel gets trampled on by some folks; I say trampled, but lemme tell ya, they just pay Him no mind, and don’t listen to the counsel He gives.
And look here, He’s comin’, just like that angel said, in six hundred years from when my daddy skipped outta Jerusalem.
And those in the world, ‘cause they got sin runnin’ rampant, will treat Him like He ain’t worth nuthin’; so they’ll whip Him, and He’ll take it; they’ll smack Him around, and He’ll take it. Yup, they’ll spit on Him too, and He’ll let ‘em, 'cause He’s all about love and patient-like toward the children of men.
And the God of our ancestors, who busted ‘em outta Egypt and showed ‘em the way in the wild, yeah, the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, He’s gonna give Himself up, just like the angel said, into the hands of some wicked folks, to be lifted up, just like Zenock talked about, and crucified, like Neum said, and buried in a tomb, just like Zenos mentioned about them three days of darkness, which is gonna serve as a sign of His death for those livin' on the islands, especially the folks from the house of Israel.
‘Cause the prophet said this: The Good Lord is surely gonna visit all the house of Israel on that day, some with His voice, ‘cause they’re right with Him, which’ll bring ‘em great joy and salvation, while others will get the loud thunderings and flashes of His strength through storms, fire, smoke, darkness, ground shakin’, and mountains movin’ around.
And all these things are surely gonna happen, the prophet Zenos said. And the rocks on this here earth are gonna burst apart; and ‘cause the earth is groanin’, a lot of kings on them islands are gonna feel the Spirit of God movin’ on ‘em, shoutin’: The Good Lord suffers.
As for them in Jerusalem, the prophet says they’ll be whipped by everyone since they crucified the God of Israel, turnin’ their hearts away, refusin’ to heed the signs and wonders, and the power and glory of the God of Israel.
And ‘cause they’re turnin’ away, the prophet says, and dissing the Holy One of Israel, they’ll wander in the flesh, perish, and become a joke and a byword, and folks’ll hate ‘em everywhere.
But when that day rolls around, the prophet says, when they stop turnin’ away from the Holy One of Israel, then He'll remember the promises He made to their daddies.
Yeah, then He’ll remember the islands; and all the folks from the house of Israel, He’s gonna gather ‘em in, says the Lord, just like the prophet Zenos said, from all four corners of the earth.
Sure enough, all the earth is gonna see the salvation of the Lord, says the prophet; every nation, family, tongue and people is gonna be blessed.
And I, Nephi, wrote all this down for my folks, hopin’ I can nudge ‘em to remember the Lord, their Redeemer.
So, I’m talkin’ to all the house of Israel, hopin’ they’ll grab hold of these things.
‘Cause you see, I’ve been workin’ in the spirit, and it wears me out so much that all my limbs feel weak, thinkin’ of them in Jerusalem; ‘cause if the Lord hadn’t been merciful, showin’ me what’s up about ‘em, just like He did the prophets from days past, I’d have been lost too.
And He surely did show the prophets of old all kinds of stuff about ‘em; and He showed a whole mess of things concerning us too; so we gotta know about ‘em, ‘cause they’re written on the brass plates.
Now it happened that I, Nephi, taught my brothers these things; and I also read a bunch of stuff to ‘em that was carved on the brass plates, so they could learn about the Lord’s doin’s in other lands, with folks from way back.
And I read ‘em tons of things that were written in the books of Moses; but to really persuade ‘em to believe in the Lord, their Redeemer, I read ‘em the words of the prophet Isaiah; ‘cause I likened all scriptures to us, so it would be good for our learnin' and betterment.
So, I said to ‘em: Y’all listen up to the words of the prophet, you who are a remnant from the house of Israel, a branch that got broken off; hear what the prophet said, which was for the whole house of Israel, and relate it to yourselves, so you all have hope like your brothers who came before you; that’s how the prophet wrote it.
