Well, let me tell ya, the good Lord spoke to my daddy, Lehi, in a dream, sayin': "Y'all are doin' right by me, Lehi, and ‘cause you've been faithful and shared the word I told ya to, folks are fixin' to take ya out."
So, the Lord told my father, right there in the dream, "Grab your fam and skedaddle into the wild."
And it sure did happen that he followed the good Lord's orders to a T, so he packed up and took off.
Next thing ya know, he was off in the wilderness, leavin' behind his home, all his land, gold, silver, and fancy stuff, takin’ nothin' but his family, some grub, and a couple of tents to camp out.
Then he headed down by the edges close to the Red Sea, wanderin' around the wild with his kin, which included my mama, Sariah, and my older brothers, Laman, Lemuel, and Sam.
After three days of trippin' in the wilderness, he set up his tent by a river in a nice lil’ valley.
So, he built himself a stone altar and made an offering to the Lord, givin’ thanks to our God up above.
He then decided to name that river Laman 'cause it flowed right into the Red Sea, and the valley was settin' close by where it emptied out.
When my dad caught sight of that river flowin' on into the sea, he turned to Laman and said: "I sure wish you could be like this river, always flowin' into the fountain of all righteousness!"
Then he talked to Lemuel, sayin': "I hope you can be like this here valley, standin’ strong and steady, never budgin' when it comes to keepin' them commandments from the Lord!"
Now, he said all that 'cause Laman and Lemuel were bein’ real stubborn; they grumbled a whole lot about their daddy, callin' him a dreamer who dragged 'em outta Jerusalem, makin' 'em leave behind their homes, gold, silver, and all their good stuff, just to wander in the wild. They thought he did it ‘cause he was bein' foolish in his head.
So Laman and Lemuel, bein' the oldest, kept grumblin' at their daddy. They didn’t get nothin’ 'bout the ways of the God who made 'em.
They didn't believe that big ol’ city of Jerusalem could be taken down, just like the prophets warned. They was a lot like those folks in Jerusalem who were lookin' to do harm to my dad.
Well, it so happened that my daddy spoke to 'em right there in the valley of Lemuel, with a whole lotta power, filled with the Spirit, and he made 'em shake in their boots. They got so confounded they didn’t even dare say a word against him; so you bet they did as he asked.
And my daddy lived in a tent, just so you know.
Now, I’m Nephi, and even though I was still just a young'un, I was a big fella and mighty curious 'bout the mysteries of God. So I hollered out to the Lord, and lo and behold, He came to see me and softened my heart so I could believe all the words my daddy spoke; that’s why I didn’t give him any trouble like my brothers did.
I chatted with Sam, lettin' him in on what the Lord had shown me through His Holy Spirit. And wouldn’t ya know it, he believed me right off.
But lemme tell ya, Laman and Lemuel wouldn't listen to me at all; they were hard-hearted, so I cried out to the Lord on their behalf.
Then the Lord spoke to me and said, "Hey there, Nephi, you’re blessed 'cause you got faith, seein' as you’ve been seekin’ me with a humble heart."
And as long as ya keep my commandments, you’ll do well and be led to a land of promise; yep, the best land I’ve got laid out for ya.
And if your brothers start actin’ up, they’ll be cut off from my presence.
But you keep my commandments, and you'll be a ruler and teach those brothers of yours.
Just so you know, when they go rebel against me, I’ll lay a heavy curse on ‘em, and they won’t have no power over your kids unless they turn against me too.
And if they do go against me, they'll be a thorn in your kids' sides, tryin' to remind 'em of how to act right.
