The Messiah’s gonna shine a light on them Gentiles and free them poor folks locked up—Israel's fixin’ to be gathered up strong in the last days—Kings, they’ll be like daddies nursing their youngin's—Just think on Isaiah 49. ‘Bout 588-570 B.C.
Now listen up, y’all in Israel, all y’all who got cut off and tossed out ‘cause of them wicked preachers; yeah, all y’all scattered out there, you’re still part of my folks, O house of Israel. Pay attention, you folks on them isles, and listen up, people far away; the Lord called me from the very start; even from my mama’s belly, He been mentionin’ my name.
He’s got my mouth like a sharp sword; tucked away in His shadow, He’s hid me, and made me into a fine arrow; stored up real nice in His quiver.
Then He told me: You’re my servant, O Israel, and I’m fixin’ to be glorified through you.
Then I reckon I said, I’ve worked my tail off for nothin’, spent all my strength and it’s been in vain; but surely my judgment is with the Lord and my work’s with my God.
And now, says the Lord—who shaped me in my mama's womb to be His servant and bring Jacob back to Him—even if Israel ain’t gathered, I’ll still be glorified in the Lord's eyes, and my God’s gonna be my strength.
He said: It ain’t no big deal for you to be my servant raisin’ up Jacob’s tribes and bring back the folks of Israel. I’ll also make you a light for the Gentiles, so you can be my salvation all ‘round the globe.
Thus says the Lord, the Redeemer of Israel, His Holy One, to the fella folks don’t like, to the one nations can’t stand, to the servant of rulers: Kings gonna see and stand up, and princes gonna worship ‘cause of the Lord who’s faithful.
Thus says the Lord: In a right time, I heard ya, O isles of the sea, and in a day of salvation, I helped ya; I’ll keep ya safe, and give you my servant for a covenant to the people, to set the earth right, and help folks claim what’s been left desolate;
So you can tell the prisoners: Get on out; to the folks sittin’ in the dark: Show y’all's selves. They’ll find food along the way, and they’ll have pastures up high.
They won't be hungry or thirsty, nor will the heat or the sun burn ‘em up; ‘cause He who’s got mercy on ‘em will lead ‘em, even by the springs of water, He’ll guide ‘em.
I’m gonna make all my mountains a highway, and my roads will be lifted up high.
And then, O house of Israel, looky here, these folks are comin’ from far away; and look, these from the north and west; and these from the land of Sinim.
Sing, O heavens; and be glad, O earth; ‘cause the feet of those from the east gonna be settlin’ down; and break out in song, O mountains; they ain’t gonna get stomped on no more; for the Lord’s comfortin’ His people, and showin' mercy to those in need.
But behold, Zion’s been sayin’: The Lord’s forgotten me, and my Lord’s forsaken me—but He’s gonna show He ain't forgotten.
Can a mama forget her baby she’s nursing, and not have compassion on the child of her belly? Sure, some may forget, but I won't forget you, O house of Israel.
Looky here, I’ve etched you on the palms of my hands; your walls are ever before me.
Your children gonna rush against those who done you wrong; and them that laid waste to you gonna be pushin’ on out.
Lift up your eyes all ‘round and see; all these folks are gatherin’ together, and they gonna come to you. And as I live, says the Lord, you’ll surely get yourself all them as if they’re fine jewelry, and tie ‘em on like a bride.
For your waste and desolate spots, and the land that’s been wrecked, is gonna be too small now ‘cause of all the folks; and them that swallowed you up gonna be far away.
The children you’re gonna have after losing the first, will tell you: This place is too tight for me; make room for me so I can settle.
Then you'll be thinkin’ in your heart: Who’s brought me these, ‘cause I lost my kids, and I’m all alone, a captive, and movin’ ‘round? And who’s raised these? Look, I was left all by my lonesome; these, where they been?
Thus says the Lord God: Looky here, I’m gonna lift my hand to the Gentiles, and set my banner for the people; they gonna carry your boys in their arms, and your daughters gonna be on their shoulders.
And kings gonna be like daddies to you, and their queens gonna be like mamas; they gonna bow down to you face first in the dirt, and lick up the dust from your feet; and you’ll know I’m the Lord; ‘cause they won’t be ashamed waitin’ on me.
For can the prey be taken from the strong, or gonna the lawful captives be set free?
But thus says the Lord, even the captives of the strong gonna be freed, and the spoils from the terrible gonna be saved; for I’m gonna fight for ya against those against you, and I’ll save your children.
And I’ll feed those who oppress ya with their own flesh; they gonna get drunk on their own blood like it's sweet wine; and all folks gonna know that I, the Lord, am your Savior and Redeemer, the Almighty One of Jacob.
