And it came to pass that I, Nephi, wandered back to the ol’ tent where my daddy was sittin’ after chattin’ with the good Lord.  
And it came to pass that he sez to me, "Well, I had a mighty dream where the Lord told me you and your brothers gotta head back to Jerusalem."  
For behold, Laban’s got them records of the Jews and even a family tree of our kin all fancy-like on plates of brass.  
So the Lord’s tellin’ me y’all need to haul it over to Laban’s place, look for them records, and bring ’em back out here to the wilderness.  
And now, I tell ya, your brothers are grumblin’, sayin’ it’s a tough ask, but shoot, I ain't askin' ‘em, it’s a commandment straight from the Lord, ya hear?  
So go on, my boy, 'cause you’ll be blessed by the Lord for bein' a good sport about it.  
And it came to pass that I, Nephi, told my daddy, "I’m a-goin’ to do what the Lord’s asked, 'cause I know He don’t give commandments without makin’ a way for us to get it done."  
And ol’ daddy was tickled pink when he heard them words, knowin’ I’d been blessed by the good Lord.  
So me and my brothers packed up and hit the road in the wilderness, tents all in tow, headin’ up to the land of Jerusalem.  
And it came to pass that once we reached Jerusalem, me and my brothers started talkin’ it over ’mongst ourselves.  
We decided to cast lots—who’s gonna go inside Laban’s house. Well, the lot landed on Laman, and off he went inside to chat with Laban while he was sittin’ pretty at home.  
And he asked Laban for them records that were carved on the plates of brass, which had our daddy’s family tree on it.  
And behold, Laban got real mad and kicked him outta his place; he wasn’t about to hand over them records. He said, "You’re a thief, and I’ll put ya down if I have to!"  
But Laman skedaddled outta there and told us what Laban had done, and we all got real sad, thinkin’ about headin’ back to our daddy in the wilderness.  
But I said to ‘em, "Listen here, as the Lord’s livin’, we ain’t goin’ back to our daddy till we do what the Lord told us to do."  
So let’s be true to keepin’ the commandments of the Lord; we gotta head on down to where our daddy’s stuff is, ‘cause he’s got gold and silver and a whole heap of riches. He did this all 'cause of the Lord’s commandments.  
For he knew that Jerusalem was fixin’ to get destroyed ‘cause folks were bein’ wicked.  
For behold, they done turned their backs on the prophets' words. So if my daddy stays in the land after bein’ told to skedaddle outta there, he’d be in deep trouble. So off he’s gotta go.  
And behold, it’s wise in God’s eyes that we oughta get them records, so we can keep our kids learnin’ the language of our folks.  
And also to make sure they got the words that’ve been spoken by all the holy prophets from back when the world was first made, right down to now.  
And it came to pass that I used that kinda talk to get my brothers to be good about keepin’ God’s commandments.  
And it came to pass that we headed down to our land, gatherin’ up our gold, silver, and all the good stuff we could find.  
And after we got all that together, we went back up to Laban’s house.  
And it came to pass that we went right in there and asked Laban real nice-like to hand over them records on the plates of brass, promising we’d give him our gold and silver and all our good stuff.  
And when Laban laid eyes on our stuff and saw how mighty fine it was, he couldn’t help but want it for himself, so he tossed us out and sent his goons after us to take what we had.  
And it came to pass that we hightailed it away from Laban’s men, and we had to leave our stuff behind; it ended up in Laban’s hands.  
And it came to pass that we ran off into the wilderness, and Laban’s crew didn’t catch up with us, so we found a cozy spot behind a rock to hide.  
And it came to pass that Laman was all riled up with me and my daddy, and Lemuel was too, listenin’ to all Laman’s fussin’. So them two started throwin’ all kinds of mean words at us younger brothers, and they even hit us with a stick.  
And it came to pass that while they were whippin’ us, an angel of the Lord showed up, stood right there, and said to them, “Why y’all hittin’ your little brother? Don’t ya know the Lord’s picked him to lead over ya, and that’s ‘cause of your wrongdoings? Now you’ll be a-goin’ up to Jerusalem again, and the Lord will hand Laban over to ya.”  
And right after the angel had said his piece, he took off.  
And after the angel left, Laman and Lemuel started bellyachin’ again, sayin’, “How’s it even possible that the Lord’s gonna hand Laban over to us? He’s a powerhouse, can command fifty folks, shoot, he could take us down; why not?”  
