Well, it turned out that after we hiked down into the wild to see our daddy, bless his heart, he was just plumb tickled, and my mama Sariah was just downright overjoyed, 'cause she had truly feared somethin’ bad had happened to us.
She thought we’d kicked the bucket out there in the wild; and ain’t no lie, she had a bone to pick with my daddy, tellin’ him he was just dreamin' too big; sayin’: Look here, you done dragged us from our good ol' home, and now my boys are gone, and we’re all gonna starve out here.
That’s the way my mama was goin’ on ‘bout my daddy.
Well, it turned out that my daddy spoke up to her, sayin’: Now I know I might be a bit fanciful; 'cause if I hadn’t seen the Lord’s wonders in a dream, I wouldn’t know how good He is, and would’ve just stayed back in Jerusalem, perished right alongside my kin.
But looky here, I’ve got me a mighty fine piece of land that’s filled with promise, and let me tell ya, I’m happier than a lark; yeah, I just know the Lord’s gonna save my boys from that Laban feller, and bring ‘em back to us here in the wild.
And that’s how my daddy Lehi lifted my mama Sariah's spirits, while we were wanderin’ ‘round in the wild towards Jerusalem to fetch that record of the Jews.
When we finally got back to my daddy’s tent, you best believe they were just grinning from ear to ear, and my mama felt all warm and fuzzy inside.
And she piped up, sayin’: Well, now I can tell for sure the Lord made my husband hightail it into these woods; yep, and I know down in my bones that the Lord’s looked after my boys, saved ‘em from Laban, and gave ‘em the strength to do what He told ‘em to do. And that’s how she went on.
Then it came to pass that they were just over the moon with happiness, and offered up sacrifices and burnt offerings to the Lord; givin’ thanks to the Good Lord of Israel.
After they praised the Lord, my daddy Lehi took them fancy brass plates and started lookin' ‘em over from the get-go.
And he saw they had the five books of Moses in ‘em, tellin’ the tale of how the world got made, and included Adam and Eve, who were our first folks;
And there was a record of the Jews goin’ all the way back to the start, right up to the time Zedekiah was king over Judah;
Plus, it had all them prophecies from them holy prophets, goin’ right from the beginning, even up to when Zedekiah took the throne; as well as a heap of sayings from good ol’ Jeremiah.
Then my daddy, Lehi, spotted a family tree on them plates, and it hit him that he was kin to Joseph; yep, that Joseph who was the son of Jacob, sold down in Egypt, and was kept safe by the Lord’s hand so he could save his daddy Jacob and the whole family from starvin’.
And they was also led clean outta captivity and Egypt by that same God who, bless 'em, saved ‘em.
So there you have it, my daddy Lehi figured out his family history, and Laban was also from Joseph's bloodline, so no wonder they kept those records safe.
Now when my daddy caught wind of all this, he was filled with the Spirit and started prophesyin’ ‘bout his kids—
Sayin’ that these brass plates should be spread far and wide to all nations, kindreds, languages, and folks from his family.
So he declared that these plates of brass oughta last forever; ain’t nobody gonna dull ‘em with time again. And he prophesied a whole bunch about his descendants.
And it finally came to pass that me and my daddy had been stickin’ to the commandments the Lord laid out for us.
We got ‘em records that the Lord wanted us to have, searched ‘em high ‘n’ low and found ‘em to be mighty valuable; yeah, they were worth a whole lot to us, so we could keep the Lord’s commandments for our young’uns.
So, it made sense for us to haul ‘em along as we trekked through the wild towards that promised land.
