Well, let me tell y’all, after my dad, Lehi, got done spoutin’ prophecies ‘bout his kids, the Lord spoke to him again, sayin’ it ain’t right for him to be wanderin’ through the wilderness all by his lonesome; he needed to make sure his boys found themselves some wives to help bring up little ones for the Lord in that promised land.
Then the Lord told him to send me, Nephi, and my brothers back to Jerusalem to fetch Ishmael and his whole clan out to the wilderness with us.
So, it happened that me and my brothers set out again in the wild, headin’ on up to Jerusalem.
When we got to Ishmael’s place, we found favor in his eyes—so much so that we shared with him the good word from the Lord.
And sure enough, the Lord softened Ishmael's heart, along with his family's, enough for them to join our little trek down into the wilderness to Dad's tent.
As we were makin’ our way through the wild, wouldn’t ya know it, Laman, Lemuel, and two of Ishmael's daughters, along with his two sons and their families started actin’ all rebellious against us—yep, against me, Nephi, Sam, along with their ol’ man Ishmael and his missus, and his other three daughters too.
In that whole ruckus, they was itchin’ to head back to Jerusalem.
So there I was, grievin’ for them hard-hearted folks, and I told 'em flat out, even to Laman and Lemuel: Now y’all are my big brothers, so what in tarnation’s got you bein’ so cold-hearted and blind that I gotta show you the way?
Why ain’t y’all listenin’ to the word of the Lord?
What in the world’s gotten into you that you’ve forgotten you saw an angel from the Lord?
And why on earth have you all just let slip the great things the Lord’s done for us, savin’ us from Laban and makin’ sure we got the record?
And why have you forgotten that the Lord can do whatever He pleases for folks if they just have a little faith? So, let’s keep our faith strong, y’all.
If we stick to our faith, we’re gonna end up with that promised land, and one day, you’ll see that the Lord’s word about Jerusalem’s destruction is gonna come to pass; everything He said ‘bout destroyin’ Jerusalem’s gotta happen.
‘Cause let me tell ya, the Lord’s Spirit ain’t gonna hang around with ‘em much longer; they’ve already shut out the prophets and thrown Jeremiah in jail. They’re tryin’ to take my daddy's life, runnin’ him outta the land.
Now listen here, if you all choose to go back to Jerusalem, y’all gonna meet your end right along with ‘em. And if you got any say in it, you best head to higher ground, rememberin’ what I’m tellin’ ya, ‘cause if you go, it’s gonna be curtains for ya; that’s just how the Spirit of the Lord is pushin’ me to say it.
So, after I laid all that out to my brothers, they wound up gettin' real angry with me. Then they laid hands on me, ‘cause they was furious, and they tied me up good, thinkin’ they would end my life, leavin’ me out there to be dinner for critters.
But I went to prayin’ real hard to the Lord, sayin’, “O Lord, based on my faith in you, willYou take me from my brothers’ grip; give me the strength to break free from these bonds?”
Then it happened, right after I deciren, those ropes fell right off my hands and feet, and I was standin’ tall in front of my brothers, ready to talk to ‘em again.
But wouldn’t ya know it, they got all huffy at me again, tryin’ to grab me up; but lo and behold, one of Ishmael’s daughters, her mama, and one of his sons started talkin' to my brothers, and it softened their hearts enough that they stopped tryin’ to take my life.
Then they felt sorry for their wicked ways, actually kneelin’ down before me and beggin’ me to forgive ‘em for what they did.
So I told ‘em straight out I forgave ‘em for all that mess, and I urged ‘em to hit their knees and pray to the Lord their God for forgiveness. And they did just that. After they finished prayin’ to the Lord, we got back on the road, headin’ toward Dad’s tent.
Finally, we made it down to my daddy’s tent. After me and my brothers and all of Ishmael's folks got there, they thanked the Lord their God and offered up sacrifices and burnt offerings to Him.
