Well, one day, we all got together, bringin’ every kinda seed you could think of, grains and fruits alike.
While Daddy was hangin' out in the wilderness, he started talkin’ to us, sayin’: “Y’all, I just had a dream; or, ya know, I seen a vision.”
And lemme tell ya, 'cause of what I saw, I got good reason to feel happy 'bout the Lord, especially for Nephi and Sam; I think they're gonna be alright, and their kiddos too.
But I gotta say, Laman and Lemuel, I’m mighty worried ‘bout y’all; ‘cause in my dream, I thought I saw a dark and dreary wilderness.
Then I saw a fella dressed in white robes, standin’ right in front of me.
He started talkin’ to me and told me to follow him.
So, I went on after him, only to find myself in a dark and dreary place.
After bein’ lost in that darkness for hours, I started prayin’ to the Lord to show me mercy, ‘cause I sure needed it.
Eventually, after I prayed, I looked up and saw a big ol’ open field.
Then I spotted a tree with fruit that looked downright happy to eat.
As I made my way to that tree, I took a bite of the fruit, and let me tell ya, it was sweeter than anything I ever tasted! And it was whiter than any white I ever seen.
When I ate that fruit, it filled my heart with joy, and I started wishing my family could try it too, ‘cause I knew it was better than any other fruit out there.
While I was lookin’ around, hopin' to find my family, I noticed a river of water runnin' right by that tree I was munchin' on.
I squinted to see where that river came from, and I spotted your mama Sariah, Sam, and Nephi a little ways off, lookin’ lost as a ball in high weeds.
So, I waved ‘em over, shoutin’ loud for ‘em to come on over and partake of that fruit, which was the bestest of the best.
And wouldn’t ya know it, they came over and ate the fruit too.
I was hopin' Laman and Lemuel would join in and try that fruit, so I turned my gaze back up the river to see if I could spot ‘em.
I did see ‘em, but they wouldn’t come and taste the fruit.
Then I saw a rod of iron stretchin' along the riverbank, leadin' right to the tree I was at.
There was also a tight, narrow path that ran along with that iron rod, leadin' to the tree and the fountain, clearin’ to a big ol’ open field, kinda like a whole new world.
I saw a whole mess of folks tryin’ to get to that path, pushin’ hard to reach that tree I was by.
Then they came onto the path that led to the tree.
But then, outta nowhere, a whole cloud of darkness showed up; I mean, it was a thick mist that got so wild, folks lost their way and wandered off.
But I saw others pushin’ through, grabbin’ hold of that iron rod, and they pressed on through the darkness, hangin’ on tight ‘til they made it to that fruit.
After munchin’ on the tree fruit, they looked around like they was embarrassed or somethin’.
I turned my eyes, too, and saw a great big fancy buildin’ on the other side of that river, floatin’ way up high above the ground.
It was packed with folks, all ages and kinds, wearin’ fancy clothes, laughin’ and pointin' fingers at them who was eatin’ the fruit.
Once they tasted that fruit, they got real ashamed ‘cause of folks makin’ fun of ‘em, and they fell away into paths that were no good and got lost.
Now, I, Nephi, ain’t sharin’ every single word from my dad.
But to make it quick, he saw some more folks closin’ in, grabbin’ that iron rod, and makin’ their way forward, holdin’ on tight, ‘til they fell down and ate that tree fruit.
He also noticed more folks tryin’ to feel their way towards that big ol’ fancy buildin’.
Some ended up drownin’ in the fountain, and others got lost on strange paths.
And boy, was a heap of people wanderin’ into that strange buildin’. After they got in there, they pointed their fingers at me and others who was eatin’ the fruit, but we just ignored ‘em.
These are my daddy’s words: Anyone who listened to ‘em, well, they fell away.
Laman and Lemuel didn’t eat the fruit, so my father said.
After he finished spillin' the beans 'bout his dream or vision, he said he was plenty scared for Laman and Lemuel; he was worried they'd be cast away from the Lord.
He even urged ‘em with all the love of a worried parent, to listen close to him, hopin’ the Lord would be kind and not cast ‘em off; yeah, my dad preached to ‘em good.
And once he was done preachin’ and prophesyin’ to ‘em ‘bout a whole mess of things, he told ‘em to keep the Lord's commandments, and he finally stopped talkin’ to ‘em.
