Look, my brothers, do you not remember reading the words of the prophet Zenos, which he said to the house of Israel, saying:
Listen, O house of Israel, and pay attention to my words as a prophet of the Lord.
The Lord says, I will compare you, O house of Israel, to a cultivated olive tree, which a man took care of in his vineyard; it grew, aged, and started to rot.
The master of the vineyard saw that his olive tree was decaying; he said: I will prune it, dig around it, and nourish it so that perhaps it may produce new, tender branches and not die.
So he pruned it, dug around it, and nourished it as he had said.
After many days, it began to sprout some young and tender branches, but the main part of the tree started to die.
The master of the vineyard saw this, and he said to his servant: I am saddened that I might lose this tree; go and gather branches from a wild olive tree and bring them to me; we will cut off the main branches that are withering and throw them into the fire to burn.
And the Lord of the vineyard said, I will take many of these young and tender branches and graft them wherever I choose; it does not matter if the root of this tree dies, for I can preserve its fruit for myself; therefore, I will graft these young and tender branches wherever I want.
Take the branches from the wild olive tree and graft them in its place; those branches I have cut off will be thrown into the fire and burned so they do not clutter my vineyard.
And the servant of the Lord of the vineyard did as the Lord commanded, and grafted the wild olive branches in.
The Lord of the vineyard had it dug around, pruned, and nourished, saying to his servant: I am saddened to think that I might lose this tree; therefore, I have done this so that perhaps I might preserve its roots and keep them for myself.
So, go and watch over the tree, and nourish it according to my instructions.
I will place these where I will, and it does not matter to you; I do this to preserve the natural branches of the tree; also, I want to store up its fruit for the season, as it saddens me to think I might lose this tree and its fruit.
It came to pass that the Lord of the vineyard went away and hid the natural branches of the tame olive tree in the lowest parts of the vineyard, some in one place and some in another, according to his will.
A long time passed, and the Lord of the vineyard said to his servant: Come, let us go down into the vineyard, so we may work in it.
So they went down into the vineyard to work. The servant said to the master: Look here; look at the tree.
The Lord of the vineyard looked and saw the tree where the wild olive branches had been grafted; it had sprouted and begun to bear fruit. He saw that it was good, and the fruit was like the natural fruit.
He said to the servant: Look, the wild branches have absorbed the moisture from its roots, causing the roots to provide much strength; because of this strength, the wild branches are now producing tame fruit. If we had not grafted these branches, the tree would have perished. Now, I will store up much fruit that this tree has produced; I will keep this fruit for the season for myself.
The Lord of the vineyard said to his servant: Come, let us go to the lowest part of the vineyard and see if the natural branches have also produced a lot of fruit, so I can store some for the season for myself.
They went to where the master had hidden the natural branches of the tree, and he said to the servant: Look at these; see this one has produced much fruit, and it is good. He said to the servant: Take some of this fruit and store it for the season, for I have tended it for a long time, and it has produced much fruit.
The servant said to his master: How did you come to plant this tree or branch here? This is the poorest spot in all of your vineyard.
The Lord of the vineyard said to him: Do not advise me; I knew it was poor ground; that's why I said to you, I have taken care of it all this time, and you see that it has produced a lot of fruit.
Then the Lord of the vineyard said to his servant: Look here; I have also planted another branch of the tree; and you know that this ground is poorer than the first. But look at the tree. I have cared for it for a long time, and it has produced much fruit; gather it and store it for the season, that I might keep it for myself.
And the Lord of the vineyard said again to his servant: Look here, I have planted another branch as well; notice that I have taken care of it, and it has also produced fruit.
He said to the servant: Look here and see the last branch. I have planted this in good soil; I have tended it for a long time, and only part of the tree produced tame fruit while the other part has produced wild fruit; look, I have nurtured this tree just like the others.
The Lord of the vineyard then said to the servant: Cut off the branches that do not produce good fruit, and throw them into the fire.
But the servant replied: Let us prune it, dig around it, and nourish it a little longer; perhaps it will yield good fruit for you so that you can keep it for the season.
And so the Lord of the vineyard and his servant took care of all the fruit in the vineyard.
A long time passed, and the Lord of the vineyard said to his servant: Come, let us go down into the vineyard again to work. The time is near, and the end will soon come; therefore, I must store up fruit for the season for myself.
They went down into the vineyard and came to the tree whose natural branches had been cut off, and the wild branches had been grafted in; and all sorts of fruit cluttered the tree.
The Lord of the vineyard tasted the fruit, sampling each type. He said: We've tended this tree for a long time, and I have gathered plenty of fruit for myself for the season.
However, this time it has produced much fruit, but none of it is good. There are all kinds of bad fruit, and it is of no benefit to me despite all our efforts; I am saddened that I might lose this tree.
The Lord of the vineyard said to the servant: What should we do about the tree so that I can once again preserve good fruit for myself?
The servant replied: Because you grafted in branches from the wild olive tree, they have strengthened the roots, enabling them to survive; thus, you see they are still good.
Then the Lord of the vineyard said to his servant: The tree is of no use to me, and neither are the roots as long as it produces evil fruit.
However, I know that the roots are good, and I have preserved them for my own purpose; due to their great strength, they have brought forth good fruit from the wild branches.
But the wild branches have grown and overrun the roots; because they have overpowered the roots, they are producing much evil fruit; this excess of bad fruit shows that it is beginning to perish; it will soon be ripe for burning, unless we take action to preserve it.
Then the Lord of the vineyard said to his servant: Let us go down to the lowest part of the vineyard and see if the natural branches have also produced bad fruit.
So they went down into the lowest part of the vineyard and discovered that the fruit of the natural branches had also become corrupt; yes, the first, the second, and the last had all become corrupted.
The wild fruit of the last branch had overcome the part of the tree that bore good fruit, causing that branch to wilt and die.
The Lord of the vineyard wept and said to the servant: What more could I have done for my vineyard?
I knew that all the fruit of the vineyard, except for these, had gone bad. And now these that once bore good fruit have also gone corrupt; now all the trees in my vineyard are worthless, except to be cut down and burned.
And behold, this last tree, whose branch has withered, I planted in a good location; yes, it was the place I valued most in all my vineyard.
You saw that I also cut down whatever cluttered that spot so that I could plant this tree in its place.
You saw that part of it produced good fruit while another part provided wild fruit; and since I did not throw away its branches and burn them, they have overrun the good branch until it has withered away.
And now, despite all the care we've given to my vineyard, its trees have become corrupted; they produce no good fruit, and these are the ones I wanted to preserve, to have collected fruit against the season for myself. But now they have become like the wild olive tree and are worthless, only fit to be cut down and burned; it pains me to think I might lose them.
But what more could I have done in my vineyard? Have I held back in my care? No, I have taken care of it, dug around it, pruned it, fertilized it; I have reached out for nearly the entirety of the day, and the end is near. It hurts me to think that I have to cut down all the trees of my vineyard and burn them. Who has corrupted my vineyard?
The servant said to his master: Is it not because of the tall branches in your vineyard—have they not overwhelmed the good roots? Because the branches overpowered the roots, behold, they grew faster than the roots could provide, taking strength for themselves. I ask, is not this the reason your vineyard has gone corrupt?
Then the Lord of the vineyard said to the servant: Let us go and cut down the trees of the vineyard and burn them, for they clutter my vineyard, for I have done everything I could. What more could I have done for my vineyard?
But the servant replied: Give it a little more time.
And the Lord said: Yes, I will give it a little more time, for it saddens me that I should lose the trees of my vineyard.
Therefore, let us take the branches from those trees that I planted in the lowest parts of my vineyard and graft them into the tree they came from; and let us take off the most bitter branches from the tree and graft in the natural branches of the tree instead.
I will do this so that the tree does not perish, so perhaps I can preserve the roots for my own purpose.
The roots of the natural branches of the tree, which I planted where I wanted, are still alive; therefore, to preserve them for my purpose, I will take some branches from this tree and graft them in. Yes, I will graft in the branches of their mother tree so that I can also preserve the roots for myself, so that when they are strong enough, perhaps they will produce good fruit for me, and I may find glory in the fruit of my vineyard.
It came to pass that they took from the natural tree that had turned wild and grafted it into the natural trees, which also had become wild.
And they also took from the natural trees that had become wild and grafted them into their mother tree.
The Lord of the vineyard said to the servant: Do not remove the wild branches from the trees, except for the most bitter; and in those you shall graft as I instructed.
We will nourish the trees in the vineyard again, we will trim their branches; and we will remove the ripened branches that must perish and cast them into the fire.
I do this so that the roots may gain strength from the good branches; and because of the branch changes, the good may overcome the bad.
Since I have preserved the natural branches and their roots, and I have grafted the natural branches back into their mother tree and preserved the roots of their mother tree, perhaps the trees of my vineyard might once more bear good fruit; and I may find joy again in the fruit of my vineyard, and perhaps I may rejoice abundantly for having preserved the roots and branches of the first fruit—
So, go and call the servants so we may work diligently in the vineyard, that we may prepare the way for me to bring forth the natural fruit again, which is good and the most precious fruit above all others.
Let us now labor hard this last time, for the end is near, and this is the last time I shall prune my vineyard.
Graft in the branches; start with the last so that they can be first, and the first can be last; dig around all the trees, both the old and young, the first and the last; and so on, to ensure they are nourished again for the final time.
So, dig around them, prune them, and fertilize them one more time for the last time, for the end is near. If the last grafts grow, and produce the natural fruit, prepare the way for them so they may thrive.
As they begin to grow, you shall remove the branches that produce bitter fruit, depending on the strength and size of the good; do not take away the bad all at once, lest the roots become too strong for the graft and the graft perish, and I lose those trees from my vineyard.
For I grieve at the thought of losing the trees of my vineyard; therefore, you will remove the bad branches as the good grow so that the roots and tops will be equal in strength, until the good overcomes the bad, and the bad can be cut down and burned, not cluttering my vineyard; thus I will cleanse my vineyard of the bad.
I will graft the branches of the natural tree back into the natural tree;
The branches of the natural tree will be grafted into the natural branches of the tree, reuniting them to together to produce natural fruit, and they will become one.
And the bad will be cast away, even from all the land of my vineyard; for only this once will I prune my vineyard.
It came to pass that the Lord of the vineyard sent his servant; and the servant went and did as the Lord commanded, bringing other servants, though they were few.
The Lord of the vineyard said to them: Go and labor in the vineyard with all your strength. For this is the last time I will care for my vineyard; for the end is near, and the time of harvest is quickly approaching; and if you labor with me with all your might, you will rejoice in the fruit I will store for myself against the time that is soon to come.
The servants went and worked hard, and the Lord of the vineyard labored alongside them; they obeyed all the commandments of the Lord of the vineyard.
Soon, natural fruit began to appear in the vineyard again; the natural branches grew and thrived greatly; the wild branches were being cut off and discarded; and they kept the roots and tops balanced according to their strength.
Thus they worked diligently, following the Lord of the vineyard’s commands, until all the bad had been removed from the vineyard, and the Lord had ensured the trees had produced the natural fruit again; they became like one body, the fruits were equal, and the Lord of the vineyard had preserved for himself the natural fruit, which was most precious to him from the beginning.
When the Lord of the vineyard saw that his fruit was good, and that his vineyard was no longer corrupted, he called his servants and said: For this last time we have cared for my vineyard; you see that I have done as I wished, and I have preserved the natural fruit, that it is good, just as it was in the beginning. Blessed are you; for because you have been diligent in working with me in my vineyard, and have kept my commandments, and have returned to me the natural fruit, my vineyard is no longer corrupted, and the bad is removed; behold, you shall rejoice with me because of the fruit of my vineyard.
For a long time I will store up the fruit of my vineyard for myself against the season that is quickly coming; and for the last time I have cared for my vineyard, pruned it, dug around it, and fertilized it; therefore, I will store the fruit for myself for a long time, according to what I have said.
When the time comes for evil fruit to enter my vineyard again, I will gather the good and the bad; I will preserve the good for myself and cast away the bad to its own place. Then the season and the end will come, and I will cause my vineyard to be burned with fire.
