Well now, y’all listen up, it sure did get quiet-like across the land for a whole heap of hours—Christ was givin' His promise to round up folks, just like a mama hen gathers up her chicks—'course, the better folks amongst ‘em were kept safe. 'Bout A.D. 34–35.
And now, here’s the deal: all them folks in the land heard what was said, and they saw it too. After all that talk, the land fell real quiet for many hours on end;
Folks were so flabbergasted that they stopped their moanin’ and wailin' over the kin they'd lost; so, it was quiet as a church mouse for a good long while.
Then, bam! Suddenly, a voice came back to the people, and everybody heard it clear as day, sayin’:
Hey y’all, folks from them big cities that done fell down, y’all who are kin to Jacob, yes sir, you folks of Israel, time and again I tried to gather you up like a hen pulls her chicks under her wings and took care of ya.
And time and again, I wanted to gather you up just like that, but y’all, oh people of Israel who’ve fallen away; yeah, y’all who hang out in Jerusalem, how many times did I wanna gather you up like a hen does, but you just wouldn’t have it.
Oh my folks of Israel who I've held onto, how many times will I gather ya like a hen gathers her brood under her wings, if ya’ll just turn back to me with a repentant heart?
But if ya don’t, oh my house of Israel, your homes are gonna be empty and desolate till the promises made to your forefathers come to pass.
Now, this here’s what happened after the people heard those words: they started cryin’ and wailin' on account of the kin and friends they lost.
Three whole days passed by like that. Then in the mornin’, the dark cloud lifted and the ground stopped shakin’, rocks stopped bustin’, and all them awful groans fizzled out, havin' all them ruckus sounds fade away.
The earth came back together, standin’ sturdy, and the mournin', weepin', and wailin' of them folks who were still livin' calmed down; their sorrow turned into joy, and they started shoutin’ praises and thankin’ the Lord Jesus Christ, their Savior.
And that’s how far the scriptures matched up with what them prophets been sayin’.
It was the good folks left who got saved, ‘cause they welcomed the prophets and didn’t stone 'em; ‘twas them who hadn’t shed the blood of the saints who were kept safe—
And they were spared, not sunk and buried in the ground; they weren’t drowned in the deep water, nor burned up by fire, nor crushed under debris; they weren’t swept away by the whirlwind, and didn’t get overpowered by smoke and darkness.
Now, if ya readin’ this, pay attention; if ya got them scriptures, dig in and see if all these deaths and destruction from fire, smoke, storms, whirlwinds, and the earth openin’ up to swallow folks ain’t all just fulfillin’ the prophecies from a whole bunch of holy prophets.
Look here, I’m tellin’ ya, plenty folks talked about this when Christ showed up and got themselves killed for spoutin’ it.
Yup, the prophet Zenos testified 'bout these things, and Zenock had his say too, 'cause they were callin' out specifically on behalf of us, the ones left from their lineage.
Now, our daddy Jacob also talked ‘bout the little bit left from Joseph’s line. And just look at us, ain’t we part of Joseph’s kin? And don’t them things that testify about us got their names scratched on them brass plates our daddy Lehi brought back from Jerusalem?
Then, it came to be that at the end of that thirty-fourth year, I’m fixin’ to show ya that the Nephites who were kept safe and those called Lamanites who were also spared got a whole lotta blessings and good stuff rainin’ down on ‘em, so much so that right after Christ went up to heaven, He sure enough showed Himself to them—
Showin’ off His body and ministerin' to ‘em; we’ll tell y’all more 'bout His ministry soon enough. So for now, I’ll wrap up my talkin'.
