Well now, let me tell ya, Jesus did show his face to them folks from Nephi when they was all gathered up at the temple down in Bountiful, and he ministered to 'em; and that’s how he did it.
So here’s how it went down, a whole heap of folks came 'round the temple in Bountiful, just a-gatherin’ and wonderin’ ‘bout all the miraculous things that had happened.
They was chin-waggin’ 'bout this Jesus Christ, ya know, the one they heard about with the signs ‘n all ‘bout his death.
Well, while they was yammerin’ away, all of a sudden, they heard a voice like it was comin' down from the sky; they looked all 'round ‘cause they didn’t quite know what that voice was sayin’. Now, it weren’t no thundering voice, not loud or harsh, but it was a little voice that went right through 'em, makin' every single one of ‘em shiver; yes sir, it went straight to their very souls and set their hearts on fire.
Then, wouldn’t ya know it, they heard that voice again, but they still didn’t get it.
And then the third time, that voice rang out and they really tried to open their ears to listen; they set their sights on where the sound was comin' from, starin' up at the heavens.
And lo and behold, the third time they figured it out, and that voice said to ‘em:
Looky here, this is my Beloved Son, the one I’m mighty pleased with, the one I’ve glorified—y’all better listen to him.
Well, when they got the message, they raised their eyes to heaven once more, and would ya believe it, they saw a Man comin’ down outta heaven, wearin’ a white robe; he floated down and stood right there in the midst of ‘em, and everyone was just starin’ at him, couldn’t hardly say a word, even to each other, ‘cause they thought he was just an angel appearin' before ‘em.
Then he reached out his hand and spoke to the folks, sayin’:
Hey y’all, I’m Jesus Christ, the one them prophets been talkin’ about who’s gonna come into the world.
And just so ya know, I’m the light and the life of this world; I done drank from that bitter cup the Father gave me and glorified Him by takin' on the sins of the whole world, showin’ the Father I’ll do His will in all things since the very beginning.
When Jesus finished sayin' all this, the whole crowd just hit the dirt; they remembered how it was foretold he’d show himself after he went up to heaven.
Then the Lord spoke to ‘em, sayin':
Get up and come to me, feel free to put your hands right in my side, and take a gander at the marks from the nails in my hands and feet, so ya know I’m the God of Israel and the God of this whole earth, who done got killed for the sins of the world.
So, that crowd started movin’ on up, thrustin’ their hands right in his side, feelin’ them nail marks in his hands and feet; and they all did it, one by one, until they had their turn, seein’ with their own eyes and feelin’ with their own hands, and they knew for sure and told everyone, this was the one the prophets talked about who would come.
And once they all had their turn and witnessed it themselves, they all hollered together, shoutin’:
Hosanna! Bless the name of the Most High God! Then they fell down at Jesus' feet and worshiped him.
Then the Lord spoke to Nephi, since he was right there in the crowd, and told him to come on forward.
Nephi got right up and walked over, bowin’ low and givin’ the Lord a kiss right on his feet.
The Lord told him to get back up. So, Nephi stood up tall before him.
And the Lord told him: I’m givin’ you the power to baptize these folks when I head back up to heaven.
Then the Lord called on some others and told ‘em the same thing; he gave ‘em all the power to baptize too, sayin’: This is how you’re gonna do it, and don’t be arguin’ amongst yourselves.
I’m tellin’ ya straight up, if anyone repents of their sins ‘cause of your words and wants to get baptized in my name, here’s how you’re gonna do it—y’all are gonna wade into the water and in my name, you’ll dunk ‘em.
And just so ya know, these are the words you gotta say, callin’ ‘em by name, like this:
With the authority I got from Jesus Christ, I baptize you in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost. Amen.
Then you’re gonna dip 'em in the water and pull ‘em right back up outta the water.
That’s how you’ll baptize in my name; ‘cause I’m tellin’ ya, the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost are all one; and I’m in the Father, and the Father’s in me, and we’re all one together.
Now, according to what I told ya, that’s how you’ll do the baptizin’. No squabblin’ like there’s been before, nor shufflin’ around about my teachings like it’s been in the past.
‘Cause I’m tellin’ ya true, anyone who’s got that spirit of arguein’ ain’t with me, but they belong to the devil, who stirs up folks to fight and get mad at each other.
Now listen here, my doctrine don’t stir folks up with anger against one another; my doctrine is all ‘bout puttin’ that away.
Let me tell ya, I’m fixin’ to share my doctrine with you.
And here it is, this is my doctrine, and it’s what the Father gave me; I bear witness of the Father, and he bears witness of me, and the Holy Ghost testifies of the Father and me too; and I bear witness that the Father tells all folks everywhere to repent and put their faith in me.
And whoever believes in me and gets baptized, they’re the ones gonna be saved; them’s the ones who’s gonna inherit the kingdom of God.
But whoever don’t believe in me and don’t get baptized, they gonna be damned.
I’m tellin’ ya true, this is my doctrine, and I’m bearin’ witness of it from the Father; and whoever believes in me believes in the Father too; the Father’s gonna testify of me to him because He’s gonna fill him up with fire and the Holy Ghost.
And that’s how the Father’s gonna testify of me, and the Holy Ghost’s gonna testify to him of the Father and me; ‘cause the Father, me, and the Holy Ghost, we’re all one.
And I’ll say it again, ya gotta repent, be like a little child, and get baptized in my name, or ya just ain’t gonna receive these things at all.
And I’ll say it again, ya gotta repent and get baptized in my name, and be like a little child, or you’re not gonna inherit the kingdom of God, not even a bit.
I’m tellin’ ya true, this is my doctrine, and whoever builds on it, they’re builtin’ on my rock, and the gates of hell ain’t gonna stand against ‘em.
And whoever is out there sayin’ more or less than this, claimin’ it as my doctrine, well, they’re spreadin’ evil, and they ain’t built on my rock; they’re buildin’ on shifty sand, and when the floods come and the winds start blowin’, them gates of hell are wide open for ‘em.
So, get goin’ out to the folks, and tell ‘em the words I’ve said, all the way to the ends of the earth.
