Well, Jesus done spoke these words to Nephi an’ all them folks he called up, (now there was twelve of 'em who got the power ‘n authority to do some baptizin’), an’ y’know, he reached out his hand to the crowd, hollerin’: Y’all are mighty blessed if ya pay attention to the words of these twelve fellas I picked out from y’all to serve ya; I’ve given ‘em the power to dunk ya in water; an’ after ya get wet, I’ll be givin’ ya a good ol’ baptism with fire ‘n the Holy Ghost; so y’all are blessed if ya believe in me and get baptized, ‘specially after ya seen me and know who I am.
An’ again, they sure are extra blessed who believe in y’all’s words, ‘cause you’ll be givin’ testimony ‘bout seein’ me, knowin’ who I am. Yup, blessed are those who take ya seriously, humble themselves, and get baptized, ‘cause they gonna be touched by fire and the Holy Ghost, an’ have their sins washed away.
You betcha, blessed are the poor in spirit who come over to me, ‘cause theirs is the good ole kingdom of heaven.
An’ again, blessed are all them folks who mourn, ‘cause they gonna get some comfort.
An’ blessed are the meek, ‘cause they gonna inherit the whole dang earth.
An’ blessed are them who’re hungry and thirsty for righteousness, ‘cause they’ll be filled with the Holy Ghost.
An’ blessed are the merciful ones, ‘cause they gonna get mercy back.
An’ blessed are all them pure in heart, ‘cause they gonna see God face to face.
An’ blessed are the peacemakers, ‘cause they gonna be called the children of God.
An’ blessed are them who get picked on for my name’s sake, ‘cause theirs is the kingdom of heaven too.
An’ blessed are y’all when folks start talkin’ bad about ya, persecute ya, an’ throw all kinds of false evil at ya, just ‘cause of me;
For y’all are gonna have big ol’ joy an’ be real glad, ‘cause your reward up in heaven is gonna be huge; for that’s how they treated the prophets that came before ya.
Now listen here, I’m tellin’ ya straight up, I want y’all to be the salt of the earth; but if that salt loses its flavor, how’s this world gonna be spiced up? That salt's just gonna be tossed out and walked on.
Now, I’m tellin’ ya again, y’all are the light of this whole group. A city sittin’ up on a hill can’t be hid nohow.
Now, do folks light a candle and cover it up with a basket? Nope, they put it on a candlestick so it lights up the whole house;
So y’all let your light shine in front of everyone, so they see all them good things ya do and praise your Father up in heaven.
Don’t think I’s here to tear down the law or the prophets. I ain't here to destroy but to fulfill all that mess;
‘Cause truly I’m sayin’ to ya, not a single dot or dash of the law’s gonna pass away, with me it’s all been fulfilled.
And see here, I’ve given y’all the law and my Father’s commandments, which is for ya to believe in me, turn away from your mess, and come to me with a broken heart and a spirit that's sorry. So there ya have it, them commandments are right in front of ya, and the law’s all been wrapped up.
So come on over to me an’ get saved; ‘cause I’m tellin’ ya for real, if y’all ain’t keepin' my commandments I told ya ‘bout now, ya ain’t got no chance enterin’ the kingdom of heaven.
Y’all heard ‘em say a long while back, it’s written that ya can’t kill, an’ if ya do, you best believe you’re in trouble with God;
But I’m sayin’ to ya, if ya get mad at your brother, you’re in trouble. An’ if ya call your brother a fool, you’re gonna be in danger of Hellfire.
So, if ya come on over to me, or want to come to me, an’ remember your brother’s got a grievance with ya—
Go on over to him, fix things with your brother first, then come to me ready to roll, and I’ll take ya in.
Fast-tackle that mess with your opponent while you’re still together, ‘fore he gets ya in a bind, and ya end up in jail.
For I truly say to ya, you ain’t gettin’ outta there till ya pay every last penny. And while you’re sittin’ there, can ya pay even that? I’m here to tell ya, No way.
Now, it’s written from way back when, that you can’t go messin' with marriage;
But I’m sayin’ to ya, if you look at a woman and feel lust in your heart, you’re already messin' around in your heart.
Now listen here, I give ya this commandment: don’t let any of that junk creep into your heart;
‘Cause it’s better to give that stuff up, carry your cross, than to get tossed into hell.
Now it’s been said, that whoever’s throwin’ his wife outta the house, better give her a divorce paper.
I’m tellin’ ya true, if you toss your wife aside ‘cept for fornication, you’re makin’ her commit adultery; and if you marry her after she’s been put away, you’re commitin’ adultery yourselves.
And again it’s been said, don’t swear on nothin’, but ya ought to stick to your oaths to the Lord;
But I’m sayin’ to ya, don’t swear at all; not by heaven, ‘cause that’s God’s throne;
Nor by the earth, that’s just his footstool;
And don’t swear by your own head, ‘cause you ain’t even able to change a single hair from black to white;
Just let your yes be yes, and your no be no, ‘cause anything beyond that’s just a load of trouble.
And looky here, it’s written, an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth;
But I’m tellin’ ya, don’t fight back against evil; but if someone smacks ya on your right cheek, turn and let ‘em have the other one;
And if someone takes ya to court and wants your coat, give ‘em your cloak too;
And if someone makes ya go a mile, go ahead and walk two with ‘em.
Give to everyone who asks ya, and don’t turn away from anyone who wants to borrow from ya.
Now look, it’s also written that you gotta love your neighbor and hate your enemy;
But I’m tellin’ ya, love your enemies, bless ‘em that rag on ya, do good to ‘em that hate you, an’ pray for folks who use you and persecute you;
So ya can be the children of your Father up in heaven; he makes that sun shine on the good folks and the bad ones too.
So all them old laws that were around, in me they’re all wrapped up and fixed.
Old stuff is gone, and everything’s brand new.
So I’m hopin’ y’all get perfect, just like me, or your Father who’s up in heaven is perfect too.
