Well, I reckon I wanna tell y’all that y’all oughta be doin’ good deeds for the folks down on their luck; but let me tell ya to keep that business hush-hush ‘cause showin’ off to folks don’t get you no goodies from your Father up in heaven.
So, when y’all go doin’ your good deeds, don’t go blarin’ a horn like them hypocrites do at church or strut around the streets to soak up the praise from folks. I tell ya straight, they’ve already gotten their reward.
But when you’re givin’ to charity, don’t let your left hand know what your right hand’s up to;
Keep it all quiet-like, ‘cause your Father who sees what ain’t out in the open, He’s gonna bless you right in front of everybody.
And when you pray, don’t be like them hypocrites who love to stand all proud in church and on street corners just to show off. I’m tellin’ ya, they’ve got their rewards too.
But you, when ya wanna pray, find a quiet little spot, close the door behind ya, and have a little chat with your Father who’s listenin’ quietly; and He’ll let folks see how He’s rewarded ya.
Now, when y’all pray, don’t be rattlin’ off the same words over and over like them folks who ain't got sense. They think bein’ loud and constant would get ‘em heard.
Don’t be thinkin’ like that, y’all! Your Father knows what you need before you even ask.
So pray like this: Our Father up there in heaven, may your name be treated with respect.
Let your will happen here on earth, just like it does in heaven.
And forgive us our debts, just like we forgive them that owe us.
And keep us away from temptations, but save us from all the bad stuff.
‘Cause yours is the kingdom, the power, and the glory, forever and ever. Amen.
If you’re forgivin’ folks their wrongdoings, then your heavenly Father’s gonna forgive you too;
But if you don’t forgive them, well, don’t expect your Father to forgive you either.
And listen here, when y’all fast, don’t go lookin’ all sad like them hypocrites who mess up their faces just to appear like they’re bein’ good. I’m here to tell ya, they’ve already got their reward.
But you, when you’re fasting, fix yourself up and wash your face,
So you ain’t lookin’ like you’re starvin’, but keep it private with your Father, who’s in the secret place; and He’ll make sure you’re rewarded in front of folks.
Don’t be hoardin’ up treasures down here on earth where moths and rust can wreck ‘em and thieves can break in and steal;
Instead, keep your treasures in heaven, where moths and rust can’t mess with ‘em, and where thieves can’t break in and steal.
‘Cause where your treasure is, that’s where your heart’s gonna be too.
Now, the eye’s the light for the body; if your eye’s focused, your whole body’ll be lit up.
But if your eye’s all messed up, your whole body’ll be dark as a moonless night. So, if the light in you is dark, man, ain't that darkness somethin’ else!
Ain’t no one can serve two bosses; you either gonna love one and hate the other, or hang on to one and be mean to the other. You can’t serve God and money.
Now, it came to pass that Jesus finished sayin’ all this, and He looked at the twelve He picked out, and He told ‘em: Remember the stuff I’ve told ya. Look here, y’all are the ones I chose to serve this crowd. So I’m sayin’ don’t worry ‘bout your life, what you’re gonna eat or drink; or even what you’re gonna wear. Ain’t life more important than food, and the body more than clothes?
Look at them birds in the sky, they don’t plant or harvest or stash away in barns; but your heavenly Father takes care of ‘em. Don’t ya think you’re worth more than them?
Which of you can add a single inch to your height just by worryin’?
And why ya fret over clothes? Check out the lilies in the fields how they grow; they don’t work or weave.
Yet I’m tellin’ ya, even ol’ Solomon in all his fancy robes wasn’t dressed as pretty as they are.
So, if God takes care of the grass in the fields, which’s here today and tossed in the oven tomorrow, He’ll take care of you too if you ain’t got little faith.
So don’t worry and say, What we gonna eat? Or what we gonna drink? Or what we gonna wear?
Your heavenly Father knows you need all these things.
But put God’s kingdom and doin’ right first, and all these things will come to ya.
So don’t be frettin’ ‘bout tomorrow, ‘cause tomorrow’ll take care of itself. Today’s got enough trouble of its own.
