Well now, I gotta tell ya, Jesus is gonna hightail it over to those other lost sheep from Israel. In them last days, the good word's gonna spread to the Gentiles first, then right back to the folks from Israel. It's gonna be a sight when the Lord’s people can finally see eye to eye, all thanks to Him bringing back Zion. This here’s around A.D. 34.
And I’m tellin’ ya the truth, I got more sheep out there that ain't from these parts, nor Jerusalem, or even anywhere 'round there where I’ve had a chance to preach.
Now, the folks I’m jawin’ about ain’t even heard my voice yet; I ain’t never showed myself to ‘em neither.
But the big man above told me I gotta go to ‘em, so they can hear me and be counted as my sheep, ‘cause we gotta have one big ol’ fold and one shepherd; reckon that's why I’m off to show myself to them.
And here’s what I’m tellin' you: write all this down after I'm gone, so if my folks in Jerusalem, the ones who’ve seen me and been with me while I was preachin’, don’t ask the Father in my name to know ‘bout you by the Holy Ghost, or even of them other tribes they ain't never heard of, then this here stuff you write down is gonna stick around and be shown to the Gentiles, so that through all them Gentiles, the leftovers of their kin who’re scattered ‘round this earth 'cause they don’t believe, might finally come in, or at least learn ‘bout me, their Redeemer.
And you bet I’ll gather ‘em up from all corners of the earth; gonna fulfill that good ol’ promise the Father made to the whole house of Israel.
Bless them Gentiles, ‘cause they believe in me and the Holy Ghost’s got their backs, givin' ‘em a good witness about me and the Father.
Listen up now, ‘cause the Father says, since they’ve got faith in me, and y’all in the house of Israel don’t believe, the truth’s gonna roll on in to the Gentiles in the last days, and the fullness of all this is gonna be spilled out to ‘em.
But woes betide those Gentiles who don’t believe—for even though they’ve been prancin’ ‘round this land, pushin’ my folks from Israel away; my people from Israel have been thrown out, trampled underfoot by ‘em folks.
And seein’ as the Father’s been merciful to the Gentiles, but also layin’ down judgment on my people from Israel, I’m tellin’ you straight, after all that, and I’ve put my people of Israel through the wringer, gettin’ ‘em hurt, afflicted, killed, thrown out, and made to be hated and a punchline—
So here’s what the Father’s got for ya: When them Gentiles go messin' ‘round with my gospel, turnin' their noses up at the fullness of it, thinkin’ they’re better than all folks and puffed up with pride, and filled up with all sorts of lies, trickery, mischief, hypocrisy, murders, shady dealings, and all kinds of secret sin; if they up and do all that and spurn the fullness of my gospel, the Father says, I’ll pull the fullness of my gospel right outta their reach.
And then I’ll bring to mind the promise I made to my folks, the house of Israel, and I’ll be bringin’ my gospel to ‘em like I said I would.
And I’m gonna show you, Israel, that those Gentiles ain’t gonna have a lick of power over you; no sir, I’ll keep my promise to you, house of Israel, and you'll come to know the full measure of my gospel.
But if the Gentiles will turn around and come back to me, the Father says, they’ll get counted among my people, that’s the house of Israel right there.
And I won’t let my people from Israel be walkin’ around among ‘em, gettin’ trampled on, not from the Father’s view.
But if they don’t turn to me and listen to my voice, I’ll let ‘em go their way, yep, I’ll let my people from Israel get walked on and trampled down, and they’s gonna be like salt that lost its flavor, good for nothin’ but to get tossed out and stepped on by my people, the house of Israel.
I swear, I’m tellin’ ya, the Father’s commanded me to say this here: I’m supposed to give this bunch this land as their inheritance.
And then, what the prophet Isaiah said is gonna come to pass, it goes like this:
Them watchmen are gonna lift up their voices; and they’ll sing together, ‘cause they gonna see eye to eye when the Lord brings Zion back.
Y’all break out in joy, sing together, you lonely spots of Jerusalem; the Lord’s comforted His people, He’s redeemed Jerusalem.
The Lord’s rolled up His holy arm where all nations can see; and everybody from all over the world’s gonna witness the salvation of God.
