Well now, when Jesus got done sayin’ all that, he looked around at all them folks again and said, “Listen up y’all, my time’s comin’ real soon.”  
I can tell ya, y’all ain't quite gettin’ everything I’m saying here what the Good Lord told me to share with ya right now.  
So y’all go on back home, chew on what I just told ya, and ask the Father, in my name, to help ya understand, and get ready in yer minds for tomorrow, ‘cause I’ll be back with ya.  
But now I’m fixin’ to head on to the Father and to show myself to them lost tribes of Israel, ‘cause they ain't lost to Him; He knows right where He sent ‘em.  
And after He said that, He looked around at the crowd again and saw them folks all teary-eyed, starin’ at Him like they wanted Him to hang around a bit longer.  
He told ‘em, “I gotta tell ya, my heart's just full of compassion for y’all.”  
Got anyone sick among ya? Bring ‘em here. Anyone who can’t walk, can’t see, or’s got some other ailment? Bring ‘em on over, and I’ll take care of ‘em ‘cause I truly care about y’all. My heart's overflowin' with mercy.  
I reckon y’all wanna see what I’ve done for your buddies over in Jerusalem, ‘cause I can tell your faith's strong enough for me to heal ya.  
And as soon as He said that, all them folks—every single one of ‘em—went on up with their sick and their hurt, with the lame and the blind, and all them who was suffering in some way; and He healed every last one of ‘em as they came forward.  
All of ‘em, healed and whole, bowed down at His feet and worshiped Him; and as many folks that could get close enough, they were kissin’ His feet and the tears were flowin’ like a river.  
And then Jesus told ‘em to bring the little ones over.  
So they brought them youngsters and set ‘em all down on the ground ‘round Him, and Jesus was standin’ right there in the middle; and the crowd made way till all them little ones were gathered up with Him.  
And once they got all the kiddos there, Jesus told the crowd to get on their knees and hit the ground.  
Then when they knelt down, Jesus felt a groanin’ inside him and said, “Father, I’m troubled by all the wickedness the folks in Israel are up to.”  
And after He said that, He knelt down on the ground too; and shoot, He prayed to the Father, and what He prayed can’t even be put into words, and the crowd there bore witness to what they heard.  
And this is how they shared it: Ain't no eyes ever seen or ears ever heard anything as grand and amazing as what we saw and heard Jesus speak to the Father.  
Ain't no tongue can say it, no man can write it down, and no mind can come up with such splendid things as what we saw and heard Him say; and nobody can imagine how overjoyed we felt when we heard Him prayin' for us to the Father.  
When Jesus wrapped up prayin’ to the Father, He got up; but let me tell ya, the joy of that crowd was so great that they were just blown away.  
Then Jesus spoke to ‘em and told ‘em to get up.  
And they stood up off the ground, and He said, “Y’all are blessed because of your faith. And lemme tell ya, my joy's just over the moon."  
And once He said that, tears started flowin’, and the folks bear witness to it, and He took them little ones one at a time, blessed ‘em, and prayed for ‘em to the Father.  
After He done that, He shed some more tears;  
Then He spoke to the crowd and said, “Check out your little ones.”  
And when they looked up to see, they cast their gazes towards the heavens, saw the skies partin’, angels comin’ down outta heaven like they was wrapped in fire; they came down and surrounded the little ones, all wrapped up in fire; and them angels was lookin’ after ‘em.  
And the crowd saw and heard and gave their testimony; and they knew their story was true ‘cause every single one of ‘em saw and heard it for themselves; and there was about two thousand and five hundred souls there, including men, women, and children.  
