Well, lemme tell ya, when Jesus floated off to heaven, that big ol' crowd scattered like roaches when the lights come on, and every fella scooped up his wife and kiddos to head on home.
Folks started chattin’ quick, even before the sun dropped behind the hills, sayin’ they’d spotted Jesus and that he’d been good to ‘em, and he was gonna show his face again tomorrow.
Yep, all night long, word spread about Jesus; folks was so eager that a heap of ‘em worked real hard all night just to be where they thought Jesus would show up come mornin’.
Sure ‘nuff, when the sun peeked up and the crowd gathered again, there was Nephi with his lil’ brother, the one he brought back to life, Timothy, plus his boy, Jonas, and also Mathoni and Mathonihah, his bro, Kumen, Kumenonhi, Jeremiah, Shemnon, Jonas, and Zedekiah, and Isaiah too. Those were the chosen ones by Jesus, and they stepped right up into the center of that big ol' crowd.
And golly, that crowd was so large they had to split ‘em up into twelve groups.
The twelve started teachin’ the folks; they got ‘em all kneelin’ down on the ground to pray to the Father in Jesus' name.
And the disciples, they was prayin’ to the Father too, right there in Jesus' name. Then they got up and went to ministerin’ to the peeps.
Now, when they spoke them same words Jesus had said, there wasn’t a single change in 'em, they knelt down once more and prayed to the Father in Jesus' name.
They prayed for what they wanted most, hopin’ the Holy Ghost would be given to ‘em.
And when they wrapped up their prayers, they headed on down to the water’s edge, and the crowd followed along.
So, Nephi stepped into the water and got baptized.
He popped back up outta the water and started baptizin’ folks. He baptized all them Jesus had picked out.
Once everybody was baptized and had come up from the water, the Holy Ghost came upon ‘em, fillin’ 'em up with the Holy Ghost and fire.
Heck, they were surrounded like they was wrapped up in flames; it came down from heaven, and the crowd saw it and bore witness to it, while angels came cruisin’ down from heaven to help ‘em out.
And while them angels was busy helpin’ the disciples, wouldn’t ya know it, Jesus showed up right in the middle and got to ministerin' to 'em.
He talked to the crowd and told ‘em to kneel down again on that ground, and he wanted his disciples to do it too.
When they all got down on their knees, he told his disciples to pray.
Well, they kicked off their prayers, callin’ Jesus their Lord and God.
Then Jesus up and moved a lil' ways from ‘em, bent down to the ground, and said:
“Father, I sure do appreciate you givin’ the Holy Ghost to these folks I picked; it’s ‘cause they believe in me that I chose ‘em outta the world.”
“Father, I’m askin’ you to give the Holy Ghost to all them who’ll believe in what they say.”
“Father, you’ve given ‘em the Holy Ghost ‘cause they believe in me; you can see they’s all believers ‘cause you hear ‘em prayin’ to me, and they pray to me ‘cause I’m right here with ‘em.”
“And now, Father, I’m prayin’ for them, and all those who’ll believe what they tell, so they can have faith in me, so I can be in them just like you, Father, are in me, so we can be one.”
So when Jesus got done prayin’ to the Father, he went on back to his disciples, and they still was prayin’ without stoppin’ for a breath, not usin’ a heap of words ‘cause they knew what to say, and they was filled with desire.
And Jesus blessed ‘em while they was prayin’ to him, and he wore a smile that lit up his face and glowed on ‘em, and they shone bright like the clothes of Jesus; it was whiter than anything you’d ever seen on this earth.
Jesus told ‘em, “Keep prayin’ now; but they didn’t stop.”
Then he turned away from ‘em, moved a little ways off, and bowed down again, prayin’ to the Father, sayin’:
“Father, I’m grateful you’ve cleaned up those I chose ‘cause of their faith, and I’m prayin’ for ‘em and for those who’ll believe in what they say, so they might be cleaned up in me, through faith in what they say, just like they’re cleaned up in me.”
“Father, I ain’t prayin’ for the whole world, just for those you’ve given to me outta that world ‘cause of their faith, that they might be purified in me, that I might be in ‘em like you, Father, are in me, so we can be one and I can be glorified in ‘em.”
When Jesus got done sayin’ all that, he came back to his disciples, and there they was prayin’ steady without a break, and he smiled on ‘em again; and they was as white as snow, just like Jesus.
Then he moved away again, prayin’ to the Father;
And no words could even touch on what he was prayin’, and nobody could scribble it down neither.
The crowd heard it and took note of it; their hearts opened up, and they understood deep inside what he was sayin’.
But I’ll tell ya, the words he was prayin' was so great and so amazing that nobody could write it down or even speak it out loud.
So when Jesus finished prayin’, he came back to the disciples and said: “I ain’t seen faith like this among the Jews; that’s why I couldn’t show ‘em such great miracles due to their doubt.”
“Truly I tell ya, none of ‘em have seen what y’all have seen; and they ain’t heard such great things as y’all have heard.”
