Well, it just so happened that the ninty-fifth year rolled on by, and folks started forgettin’ all them signs and wonders they’d heard about. They got less and less amazed at any ol’ sign or wonder floatin' down from the heavens, ‘til they got hard in their hearts and blind in their heads, disbelievin’ all they’d seen and heard—
Thinkin’ up some silly notions in their hearts, sayin’ it was all done by folks and the devil himself, tryin’ to lead ’em away and fool ‘em good; and that’s how Satan wiggled back into their hearts, blindin’ their eyes and gettin’ ‘em to think the doctrine of Christ was just plain foolishness.
Things got real bad with folks startin’ to grow strong in wickedness and all sorts of abominations; they just didn’t believe there’d be any more signs or wonders comin’ their way, and Satan was out there temptin’ ‘em, leadin’ lots of hearts away to do some serious wickedness in the land.
And just like that, the ninty-sixth year passed on by; then came the ninty-seventh year; then the ninty-eighth year; and the ninty-ninth year too;
And can you believe it, a whole hundred years had gone by since ol’ Mosiah was runnin’ things as king over the Nephites.
Six hundred and nine years had sauntered on by since Lehi up and left Jerusalem.
And nine years had ticked away since that sign was given, the one the prophets spoke about sayin’ Christ would be comin’ into this world.
Now the Nephites started keepin' track of their years from the time that sign showed up, or from Christ’s arrival; shoot, that’s when nine years passed on by.
And bless his heart, Nephi, who was the father of Nephi, the one keepin’ the records, didn’t come back to the land of Zarahemla, and you couldn’t find him nowhere ‘round in that land.
And it came to pass that folks kept on livin’ in wickedness, even with all that preachin’ and prophesyin’ goin' on, and that’s how the tenth year went by; then the eleventh year slid on past in all sorts of iniquity.
Then in the thirteenth year, trouble stirred up all over the land; them Gadianton robbers got so many in their ranks, they was killin' folks left and right, layin’ waste to cities, spreadin’ death and destruction everywhere, and it got to where all the people, Nephites and Lamanites alike, needed to pick up arms and fight back.
So all the Lamanites who found their way to the Lord teamed up with their Nephite kin, and they had no choice, for the sake of their lives and their families, to take up arms against them Gadianton robbers, fightin’ to protect their rights, their church, their worship, and all their freedom.
And before that thirteenth year was done, the Nephites were lookin’ at total destruction ‘cause of this rough war that was causin’ a whole heap of trouble.
And it came to pass that them Lamanites who sided with the Nephites got counted among the Nephites;
And their curse was lifted off of ‘em, and their skin turned white like the Nephites;
And their young men and daughters turned out real pretty, gettin’ numbered with the Nephites, and they was called Nephites. And that’s how the thirteenth year wrapped up.
When the fourteenth year kicked off, the war ‘tween the robbers and the Nephites was still crankin’ on, gettin’ even rougher; but the Nephites managed to gain some ground against the robbers, pushin’ ‘em back into the hills and their hidey-holes.
And that wrapped up the fourteenth year. Then in the fifteenth year, the robbers came back at the Nephites; and ‘cause of the Nephites’ wickedness, and all their fussin’ and fightin’, the Gadianton robbers got the upper hand on ‘em.
And that’s how the fifteenth year ended, leavin’ folks in all kinds of trouble, with destruction hangin’ over ‘em like a dark cloud, lookin’ like they was gettin’ ready to get smitten down, all on account of their iniquity.
