Well now, lemme tell ya, Israel's gonna come on back together once that Book of Mormon gets out there—Them Gentiles gonna set themselves up as a free folks right here in America—If they got faith and follow the rules, they'll be alright; but if not, well, they'll be outta luck and in a heap of trouble—Israel's gonna build that New Jerusalem, and those lost tribes are fixin' to return. 'Bout A.D. 34.
Now I’m tellin’ ya, here’s a sign fer ya, so you’ll know when it’s all about to go down—I'm gonna gather my people, the house of Israel, who’ve been spread out all over the place, and I'm gonna set up my Zion right back among ‘em;
And listen up, here’s your sign—’cause I’m tellin’ ya, when the stuff I’ve been sayin’, and what I’m gonna say later on, and all the power of the Holy Ghost from the Father starts reachin’ them Gentiles, they’ll know ‘bout this little remnant of Jacob and my folks who’ll be scattered;
Truly, truly, I’m sayin’ this: when all this comes from the Father, it’ll be passed down to you;
‘Cause it’s wise in the Father’s eyes that they be settled right here on this land, standin’ tall as a free people with the Father’s power, so these things can come through to your little seed, fulfillin’ that promise He made to His people, O house of Israel;
So then, when these works and the stuff that happens among ya later on comes from them Gentiles, to your folks who’re gonna fade away ‘cause of their disbelief and bad deeds;
See, this is how the Father wants it, that it comes from the Gentiles, showin’ off His power to ‘em, hopin’ they won’t be stubborn, so they can repent and come find me, get baptized in my name, and learn the real truths ‘bout my teachings, so they can be counted as my people, O house of Israel;
And when all this starts happenin’, your folks will get wise to it—this here’ll be a sign for ‘em, so they know the Father’s work is already kickin’ off to keep that promise made to the house of Israel.
And when that day rolls around, you betcha it’ll be somethin’ else—kings will be hushed up; they’ll see what they never even knew was comin’ and ponder what they’d never heard before.
‘Cause on that day, for my sake, the Father’s gonna be busy doin’ a mighty fine work among ‘em; some folks won’t buy into it, but a man’s gonna preach it to ‘em anyway.
But I’m tellin’ ya, my servant’s life is in my hands; they ain't gonna harm him, even though he might get battered on account of ‘em. But I’ll mend him up, ‘cause I’m showin’ ‘em that my wisdom’s bigger than all the trickery of the devil.
So it’s gonna happen that whoever don’t believe in my words—y’all know me, Jesus Christ, the ones the Father’s sendin’ to the Gentiles and givin’ power to do so—(just like Moses said), they’re gonna be cut off from my people holdin’ that covenant.
And my folks, who’re left of Jacob, gonna be right there among the Gentiles, yeah, like a lion stridin’ through the forest, like a young lion messin’ with sheep flocks—if he walks through, he’s gonna trample and tear ‘em up, and nobody can save ‘em.
Their hand’s gonna be raised against their enemies, and all their foes will be finished off.
Oh, woe be it to the Gentiles if they don’t turn around; for that day’s comin’, says the Father, when I’m gon’ wipe your horses off the map, and I’m gonna smash your chariots;
And I’m gonna knock down your towns, bringin’ your strongholds to naught;
And I’m gonna get rid of all them witchy folks in your land, and you won’t have no more fortune tellers;
Your idols are gettin’ chopped out too, I’m takin’ away your statues, and you won’t worship your own handiwork no more;
And I’ll root out your groves right in the middle of ya; I’m gonna lay waste to your cities.
And it’s gonna be a time when all that lyin’, deceivin’, envy, fights, priestcraft, and fornicatin’ will be done with.
For it’s gonna happen, says the Father, that on that day anybody who won’t turn and come to my Beloved Son, they gonna be cut off from my people, O house of Israel;
And I’m gonna dish out some payback and wrath upon ‘em, just like I would on those heathens, and they ain’t never heard the likes of it.
But if they’ll turn around and listen to my words, not hardenin’ their hearts, I’ll set up my church among ‘em, and they’ll join in on the covenant and be counted as part of this remnant of Jacob, whom I’ve given this land as their home;
And they’ll help my people, the remnant of Jacob, and anybody from the house of Israel who comes along, so they can build a city to be called the New Jerusalem.
Then they’ll help gather in my folks, who’re scattered across the whole land, back into the New Jerusalem.
And then the heavenly power’s gonna come down and be among ‘em; and I’ll be right there too.
Then the Father’s work’s gonna kick off that day, when this gospel gets preached to the remnants of this people. I’m tellin’ ya, that day will mark the start of the Father’s work among all my scattered people, yep, even the lost tribes that the Father led away from Jerusalem.
Yep, the work’s gonna begin with all the scattered folks of mine, with the Father makin’ a path for ‘em to come to me, so they can call on the Father in my name.
And then the work’s gonna start, with the Father among all nations, preparin’ the way for His people to find their way back home to the land that’s theirs.
And they’ll come out from all over; they won’t be rushin’ or takin’ off in a panic, ‘cause I’ll be out front, says the Father, and I’ll have their backs too.
