In the last days, Zion and her parts are gonna get set up nice, and Israel's gonna be gathered up with a whole lotta mercy and kindness—They’re gonna come out on top—Kinda like what Isaiah said in chapter 54. Round about A.D. 34.
And then what’s been written’s gonna come ‘round: Sing, oh barren lady, you who ain’t had no kids; let out a holler and shout, you who didn’t go through childbirth; ‘cause there’s gonna be more kiddos from the lonely than from the ones married up, says the Lord.
Stretch out your tent, and let ‘em pull the curtains wide; don’t hold back, lengthen them cords, and make them stakes nice and strong;
‘Cause you’re gonna break out to the right and the left, and your kiddos are gonna inherit the nations and fill up them empty towns.
Don’t you fret, ‘cause you ain’t gonna be ashamed; don’t be confused, ‘cause you won’t be put to shame; you’ll forget all that shame from your younger days, and you ain’t gonna remember the shame from your widowhood no more.
For your maker, your husband, the Lord of Hosts, that’s what He’s called; and your Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel—the whole earth’s God, that’s His name.
The Lord’s called you like a woman all alone and hurtin’ in spirit, and a young wife who got left behind, says your God.
Now, I might’ve left you for a little bit, but I’ll gather you up with a whole lotta mercy.
For just a tiny spell, I turned my face ‘way from you, but I’ll have mercy on ya forever, says the Lord your Redeemer.
‘Cause this here’s like Noah’s waters to me; just like I promised those waters wouldn’t flood the earth again, I promised I won’t get mad at you.
Though the mountains might move and the hills might shake, my kindness won’t fade from you, and my peace covenant won’t be taken away, says the Lord who’s got mercy on you.
Oh you poor soul, tossed ‘round by tempests and feelin’ all alone! Listen up, I’m gonna lay your stones with pretty colors, and set your foundations with sapphires.
And I’m gonna make your windows outta agates, and your gates outta hot red stones, and all your borders gonna be filled with lovely stones.
And all your kids are gonna be taught by the Lord; and your kiddos’ peace is gonna be mighty good.
In doing right, you’ll be set up strong; you won’t have to worry ‘bout oppression, ‘cause you won’t be scared, and terror won’t be comin’ near you.
Look, they’re surely gonna gather against you, but not on my watch; whoever tries to come against you is gonna fall for your sake.
See, I made the blacksmith who’s workin’ the coals in the fire, and makin’ his tools; I also made the destroyer, who’s here to wreck things.
No weapon formed against you’s gonna prosper; and every tongue that speaks out against you in court, you gonna put them in their place. This here’s the inheritance of the Lord’s servants, and their righteousness comes from me, says the Lord.
