Well now, listen here, I reckon y’all oughta search fer these things. Yep, I’m tellin’ ya, it’s a commandment I’m givin’ ya to look into these things real good; ‘cause them words of Isaiah are mighty important.
Sure as shootin’, he was talkin’ ‘bout everything that concerns my people from the house of Israel; so it only makes sense that he’d be talkin’ to the Gentiles too.
Everything he said has happened and is gonna happen, just like he said it would.
So pay close attention to my words; write down what I’ve told ya, and when the time is right and it’s the Father’s will, these words will go out to the Gentiles.
And whoever listens to my words, repents, and gets baptized, well, they’ll be saved. Y’all better search the prophets, ‘cause there’s a whole lot of ‘em testifyin’ about this stuff.
Now, it so happened that after Jesus said these words, He told ‘em again, after He done gone through the scriptures they already had. He said, “Now look here, I want y’all to write down some other scriptures that y’all haven’t got yet.”
Then He told Nephi: “Bring me that record you’ve been keepin’.”
And when Nephi brought out them records and laid ‘em before Him, Jesus looked at ‘em and said:
“Now I’m tellin’ y’all true, I told my servant Samuel, the Lamanite, to testify to this here people that when the Father glorifies His name in Me, there’s gonna be a whole mess of saints risin’ up from the dead, showin’ themselves to many folks, and helpin’ ‘em out. Now didn’t I tell ya that?”
And the disciples piped up sayin’: “Yessiree, Lord, Samuel done prophesied just like You said, and everything came to pass.”
And Jesus replied, “How come y’all ain’t wrote down that many saints popped up and showed themselves and helped folks out?”
Well, Nephi suddenly remembered that this here thing wasn’t written down after all.
So Jesus said it needed writin’; and sure enough, just like He commanded, it got wrote down.
And it came to pass that after Jesus had explained all them scriptures they had in one big ol’ bunch, He told ‘em to teach the things He explained to ‘em.
