Well now, let me tell ya, Jesus was breakin' it down for everyone, from the little ones to the big folks—those kids were spillin' out some mighty fine words that just couldn’t be penned down—folks in the Church of Christ were all sharin' what they had. This was all goin' on ‘round A.D. 34.
So, Jesus laid all this out for the crowd, givin' ‘em the scoop on everything, from the tiny details to the big ol' stuff.
He said, "Now y’all listen up, these here scriptures you ain't got with ya, the Father told me to pass 'em on to you; it was smart of Him, seein’ that future generations needed ‘em."
And he spilled the beans on everything, right from the get-go until he makes his grand return—yep, even everything that’ll happen on this ol' earth, 'til the fire gets so hot it melts like butter, and everything’s all rolled up like a scroll, ‘n’ the heavens and earth start to fade away;
And there’s gonna be a final day when all folks, all those related and from every nation and tongue, stand before God, reckonin’ with what they done, whether it’s been good or bad—
If it’s good, they’ll get to live forever; if it’s bad, well, they’re in for a world of hurt; both sides weighin' in equally, all according to the mercy, justice, and holiness wrapped up in Christ, who was around before time even started.
Now I tell ya, there ain't no way to write down even a hundredth of what Jesus really taught the folks;
But take a gander at Nephi's plates, 'cause they hold a good bit of what he was teachin'.
And here’s what I’ve penned down, a little slice of what he shared with everyone; and I wrote it hopin' it’d get back to this people from the Gentiles, just like Jesus said it would.
And when they get this here, which is real important for ‘em to have first, it’ll test their faith, and if they believe all that, then the big stuff’ll be shown to ‘em.
But if they don’t believe it, well, the big stuff’s gonna be kept from ‘em, and that ain’t good for ‘em.
I was fixin' to write down everything that was carved on Nephi’s plates, but the Lord stopped me, sayin’: "I’m gonna test my folks’ faith."
So here I am, Mormon, writin' what the Lord told me to put down. Now I’m callin’ it a day on my talkin’ and gonna keep writin' what’s been commanded of me.
Now, listen here, I want ya'll to know that the Lord truly taught the people for three whole days; and after that, he was showin' himself to ‘em a whole lot, breakin' bread often, blessin’ it, and handin’ it out.
And it came to pass that he was teachin’ and helpin’ the little ones in that crowd we was talkin’ ‘bout, loosenin' their tongues so they could say some amazin' things way beyond what he had told the grown folks; he let ‘em speak up.
And after he went on up to heaven—when he showed himself to ‘em again, and then went back to the Father, after fixin' up the sick and the lame, givin’ sight to the blind, openin' the ears of the deaf, doin’ all sorts of healings, even raisin’ a man from the dead, and showin’ his power— 
Well, the next day, folks gathered around, they could see and hear those little ones; even the tiniest babies were chirpin' away with marvelous things; and wouldn’t ya know it, they were sayin' stuff that no one was allowed to write down.
And those disciples Jesus picked out started baptizin' and teachin' anybody that came ‘round; and all who went under in Jesus’s name got filled with the Holy Ghost.
A whole bunch of them got to witness and hear things that just ain't right to be writ down.
They were teachin’, helpin' each other out; they shared everything, treatin’ each other fair and square.
And they went and did all the things just like Jesus told ‘em to do.
And all those who got baptized in the name of Jesus were known as the Church of Christ.
