Well now, Jesus is sayin’ the Church oughta be called by His name—His whole mission and the sacrifice He made is what His gospel’s all about—Folks gotta repent and get baptized so they can be made holy by the Holy Ghost—And they gotta be just like Jesus is. 'Bout A.D. 34–35.
So, there was this time when Jesus’ disciples were wanderin’ 'round, preachin’ what they’d heard and seen, and baptizin’ folks in Jesus' name, and they got together for some serious prayin’ and fastin’.
Then Jesus popped up again to show Himself 'cause they were prayin’ to the Father in His name; He just walked right up in the middle of ‘em and asked: What is it y’all want me to give you?
And they replied: Lord, we’d sure like to know what we oughta call this church; folks are arguin’ 'round about it.
The Lord said to 'em: Now listen here, I’m tellin' ya straight up, why in the world should folks be complainin' and fussin' about this?
Ain’t they read the good book that says ya gotta take on the name of Christ, which is my name? 'Cause that’s the name y’all gonna be called come judgment day;
And anyone who takes upon 'em my name and sticks it out to the end, well, they’re gonna be saved when the day comes.
So, whatever y’all do, make sure ya do it in my name; that means y’all gotta call the church by my name; and ya gotta pray to the Father in my name so He’ll bless the church for my sake.
How could it be my church if it ain't called in my name? If it’s called after Moses, then it’s Moses’ church; if it’s named after a man, well then, it’s just a man’s church; but if it’s in my name, then it’s my church, as long as it’s built upon my gospel.
I’m tellin’ ya true, y’all are built on my gospel; so whatever you call it, do it in my name; so if ya call on the Father for the church, if it’s in my name, He’s gonna hear ya;
And if the church is built on my gospel, then the Father’s gonna show His mighty works through it.
But if it ain’t built on my gospel and it’s just schemin’ from men or the devil's doing, I’m here to tell you they might have a good time for a spell, but then the end’s gonna come, and they’ll be chopped down and tossed into the fire, where they ain't gonna come back.
‘Cause their works'll follow 'em, it’s ‘cause of those works they get chopped down; so keep in mind the stuff I’ve shared with ya.
Lookit, I’ve laid out my gospel for ya, and here it is—I came into this world to do the Father’s will, ‘cause He sent me.
And the Father sent me up on that cross; and after I was lifted up there, it was so I could draw all folks to me, just like I was lifted up by men, so men should be lifted up by the Father, to stand before me and be judged on what they’ve done, whether it’s good or bad—
And for that reason, I’ve been lifted up; so by the Father’s power, I’m gonna draw all folks to me, so they can be judged on what they did.
And here’s the deal, anyone who repents and gets baptized in my name, they’ll be filled; and if they hang in there to the end, I won’t hold anything against 'em before my Father come judgment day.
But if ya don’t endure to the end, you’re gonna get chopped down and tossed into the fire, and they ain't gonna be able to come back, all ‘cause of the Father’s justice.
And this here’s the word He’s given to the folks: He’s keepin’ His promises, He don’t lie, and He’s fulfillin’ every word.
And ain’t no unclean thing can get into His kingdom; so nothin’ gets into His rest ‘cept those who’ve washed their clothes in my blood, ‘cause of their faith, and the turnin’ away from their sins, and their loyalty to the end.
Now here’s the commandment: Repent, all y’all everywhere, and come to me and get baptized in my name, so you can be made holy by the Holy Ghost, and stand clean before me on the last day.
I’m tellin’ ya true, this is my gospel; and you know what you gotta do in my church; for the works you saw me do, that’s what you gotta do too; ‘cause whatever you’ve seen me do, that’s what you’ll do;
So, if you do these things, you’ll be blessed ‘cause you’re gonna be lifted up on that last day.
Write down the things you’ve seen and heard, except for those things that ain’t allowed.
Write down what this people does, just like got wrote down before.
‘Cause look here, from all the books that’ve been written and that’re gonna be written, this people’s gonna be judged, ‘cause that’s how folks gonna know what they did.
And you best believe, everything’s written down by the Father; that means outta the books that get written, the world’s gonna be judged.
And knowin’ this, you’re gonna be judges of this people, based on the judgment I give ya, which is gonna be fair. So, what kinda folks oughta you be? I’m here to tell ya, just like I am.
And now I’m headin’ to the Father. And I tell ya true, whatever ya ask the Father in my name, He’s gonna give it to ya.
So, ask away, and you’ll get it; knock, and it’s gonna be opened up to ya; ‘cause whoever asks, receives; and whoever knocks, it’s gonna be opened.
And right now, let me tell ya, I’m full of joy, all 'cause of y’all and this generation; yep, even the Father’s happy, and all the holy angels too, ‘cause none of ‘em are lost.
Lookit, I want you to get this; I mean the folks livin’ now in this generation; and not a single one of 'em are lost; and in ‘em I’ve got full joy.
But it does make me sad 'bout the fourth generation that's comin’ after you; they’re gonna be led off just like the son of perdition; they’ll sell me out for silver and gold, and for stuff that moths eat up and thieves break in and steal. And on that day, I’m gonna pay 'em a visit and turn their doings back on 'em.
And it came to pass that when Jesus finished saying all this, He told His disciples: Y’all better enter in through that straight gate; 'cause it’s a tight gate, and the path’s narrow that leads to life, and not many find it; but that gate’s wide, and the way’s broad that leads to death, and a whole lotta folks are takin’ that road, till the night comes when no man can work.
