Well, it happened that when Jesus finished sayin' all that, he turned to his disciples, goin' one by one, and asked, "So what is it y’all want from me once I head back up to the Father?”
And all of 'em spoke up, 'cept for three, sayin': “We sure hope that after we’ve lived our days like folks do, our workin' for ya, the job you've given us, can come to a close, so we can hurry on back to ya in your kingdom.”
Then Jesus told 'em: “Y’all are blessed ‘cause you wished for this from me; so after ya reach seventy-two years old, you’ll come back to me in my kingdom, and you’ll find rest with me.”
Once he said all this, he turned to them three special ones and asked: “What do y’all want me to do for ya when I go back to the Father?”
And they was sad deep down, not havin' the guts to ask him what they really wanted.
He said to 'em: “Look, I know what’s goin' on in your heads, and what y’all want is the same as what my good buddy John asked for me before them Jews lifted me up.”
So y’all are even more blessed, ‘cause you ain’t gonna ever know the taste of death; y’all will live to see all the Father’s doings for folks, till everything's just right according to his will, right when I come in my glory with the heavenly powers.
And y’all ain’t gonna feel the pains of death; when I come in my glory, you’ll swap from this ol' mortal life to immortality quicker than a blink, and then you’ll be feelin’ blessed in my Father’s kingdom.
And again, you won’t have no pain while you’re hangin' out in the flesh, nor sadness ‘cept for the world’s wrongdoings; and all this I’ll do 'cause of what you wished for from me, ‘cause you wanted to bring people’s souls to me while this world keeps goin’.
So, for that reason, you’ll have a whole heap of joy; and you’ll get to sit in my Father’s kingdom; yep, your joy will be complete, just like the joy the Father gave me; and you’ll be just like me, ‘cause I’m just like the Father; and the Father and I are one;
Now, the Holy Ghost gives a shout-out about the Father and me; and the Father hands out the Holy Ghost to the folks ‘cause of me.
And it just so happened, when Jesus wrapped up all this talkin', he touched each one of ‘em with his finger except for them three who were supposed to stick around, then he took off.
Next thing ya know, the heavens opened up, and they got swept up to heaven, seein' and hearin' things that were just too much to even talk about.
And they couldn’t go tell nobody ‘bout what they heard and saw, 'cause it wasn’t allowed; neither did they have the power to spill what they witnessed;
And they couldn’t tell if they was in their bodies or not; it sure felt to ‘em like a whole change where they turned from this flesh-and-blood thing into something immortal so they could see the things of God.
But eventually, they went back to doin' their work down here on earth; yet they didn’t share none of what they had heard or seen, ‘cause heaven gave ‘em strict orders not to.
Now, whether they was livin' or beyond that, since the day of their big ol' change, I can’t say;
But this much I know, lookin' at what’s been told—they went all around the land and ministered to the folks, bringin' as many as would believe into the church; baptizin’ ‘em, and those who got baptized received the Holy Ghost.
And they got thrown into jail by folks who didn’t belong to the church. But them prisons couldn’t hold ‘em, 'cause they split right open.
Then they got tossed down into the ground; but they hit the earth with God’s word, and by his power, they were pulled up from the deep places; they were so slick, nobody could dig deep enough to keep 'em down.
Three times they were thrown into a furnace and came out without a scratch.
Twice they were chucked into a den full of wild critters; and you wouldn’t believe it, they played with them beasts like a kid with a lil’ lamb and didn’t get hurt one bit.
And it went down like this— they went out there among all the Nephites, preachin’ Christ’s gospel to every last soul on the land; and folks turned their hearts to the Lord, gettin' all joined up to Christ’s church; and so that bunch of folks in that time were blessed, just like Jesus said.
And now it’s me, Mormon, wrapping up my talk about all this for a spot.
Look here, I was fixin’ to write down the names of them who wouldn’t ever taste death, but the Lord said, “No sir,” so I didn’t write ‘em down, 'cause they’re hid away from the world.
But I’ve seen ‘em, and they done helped me out.
And let me tell ya, they’ll be hangin’ out with the Gentiles, but the Gentiles ain’t gonna know 'em.
They’ll also be among the Jews, and guess what? The Jews ain’t gonna know 'em either.
And it’s gonna happen that when the Lord finds it right in his wisdom, they’ll be out there helpin’ all the scattered tribes of Israel, and folks from all nations, languages, and people, bringin’ many souls to Jesus so that their wish can come true, all ‘cause of the powerful convincing goodness of God that’s in ‘em.
And they are like God’s angels, and if they pray to the Father in Jesus’s name, they can show up to whoever seems good to ‘em.
So, big ol’ marvelous things will be done by ‘em before that great day when everyone’s gotta stand before the judgment seat of Christ;
Yep, even among the Gentiles, there’ll be some mighty big and marvelous works done by ‘em, right before that judgment day.
And if ya had all them scriptures that tell about all the amazing things Jesus done, you’d know that these things gotta come to pass, just like he said.
And woah unto the one who don’t listen to Jesus’s words, nor to them he’s picked to send out; ‘cause whoever don’t take in the words of Jesus and those he’s sent ain’t gonna receive him; and so, they won’t be gettin’ ‘em at the last day;
It’d be better for 'em if they hadn’t even been born. Do ya reckon y’all can escape the justice of a God who's been stomped on by folks, just so salvation could come?
Now listen up, as I talked about them the Lord chosen, yeah, even them three who got swept off to heaven, I didn’t know if they was cleaned up from bein’ mortal or what—
But since I wrote that, I went and asked the Lord, and he straightened it all out for me sayin’ there must be a change that happens to their bodies, or they gotta taste death;
So, to keep them from dyin’, there was a change made to their bodies so they wouldn’t feel no pain or sorrow, ‘cept for the sins of the world.
Now, this change ain’t nothin’ like what’s gonna happen on the last day; but a change sure did happen, so that Satan couldn’t touch ‘em, and he couldn’t tempt ‘em; and they were made holy in the flesh, ’cause the powers of the earth couldn’t hold ‘em back.
And in this state, they were to stay until judgment day comes for Christ; and on that day, they’ll get another big ol' change, and be welcomed into the Father’s kingdom where they won’t ever leave again, but will live with God forever in the heavens.
