Well now, the showin' of the Book of Mormon is a sure sign that the Good Lord's gettin' busy gatherin' up Israel and makin' good on His promises—Them folks who turn their backs on His modern-day words and blessings are gonna find themselves in a heap of trouble. Bout A.D. 34-35.
So lemme tell ya, when the Lord decides it's time, in His great wisdom, for these words to reach the Gentiles just like He said, then you better believe that promise made to the kids of Israel 'bout gettin' back their good ol' lands is already startin' to come true.
And you can trust that every word from the Lord, which has been spoken by them holy prophets, is gonna come to pass; so there ain’t no need for ya to think the Lord's takin' his sweet time comin' back for the children of Israel.
You ain't gotta think deep down that those words ain't worth nothin', cause the Lord's gonna remember His promise to His folks from the house of Israel.
Now when you start seein' these words poppin' up around ya, you best quit messin' 'round with what the Lord's doin', ‘cause His sword of justice is ready to strike; and mark my words, if you keep spurnin' His ways, you’re gonna find out real quick how fast it can catch up to ya.
Oh, pity on the fella who scoffs at what the Lord’s up to; yes sir, pity on the one who denies Christ and the good work He’s done!
Yep, and pity on the one who says God don’t work by revelation no more, or prophecy, or gifts, or tongues, or healings, or the mighty power of the Holy Ghost!
And you best believe, pity on whoever says to get a little somethin' for themselves that Jesus can’t work no miracles; ‘cause that fella's gonna end up like the son of perdition, where mercy just ain't in the cards, according to Christ!
Don’t you dare go hissing, spurnin’, or makin’ fun of the Jews or any of the leftover folks from the house of Israel; 'cause listen here, the Lord's got His promises in mind for ‘em, and He’ll deliver just like He swore He would.
So don’t you think for a second that you can twist the Lord’s right hand to the left, thinkin’ He won’t bring down judgement to make good on that promise to the house of Israel.
