Well, it all happened that in the sixteenth year since the good Lord showed up, Lachoneus, the head honcho of the land, got himself a letter from the leader of them wayward robbers; and let me tell ya, the words in that letter were somethin’ like this:
Lachoneus, ya big shot and top governor of this here place, listen up, I’m scribblin’ this letter to you, givin’ ya a heap of compliments for bein’ so firm—ya and yer folks hangin’ onto what y’all reckon is your rights and freedoms; y’all sure stand tall, like ya got the Lord Himself holdin’ ya up, fightin’ for your liberty, your stuff, and your home, or whatever y’all call it.
And I gotta say, it sure pains me, most noble Lachoneus, that ya think ya can take on so many tough hombres who got my command, standin’ ready for action right now, just waitin’ for me to say, “Go get the Nephites and wipe ‘em out.”
Now me, I know their spirit can't be broken, seen it myself in that battlefield, and knowin’ their everlasting grudge against ya ‘cause of all the wrongs ya done to ‘em, so if they roll down on ya, they ain’t gonna hold back, and you’ll be in a world of hurt.
So I’m sendin’ this here letter, sealin’ it with my own hand, hopin’ for y’all’s well-bein', ‘cause of your stand on what ya reckon is right and your brave spirit in fightin’ for it.
So I’m askin’ ya real nice, just hand over your towns, your lands, and all your stuff to my folks, instead of lettin’ ‘em come swingin’ swords and bringin’ destruction down on ya.
Or to put it another way, just submit to us, join up with our crew, get to know the secret stuff we got goin’ on, and be our brothers not our slaves, but partners in all we have.
And let me tell ya, I swear on it, if y’all do this, I’m givin’ my word, ya won’t be wiped out; but if ya don’t, I swear by all that’s good, come next month I’m sendin’ my armies down on ya with no mercy, and they won’t be lettin’ up ‘til you’re all gone.
And here I am, Giddianhi; I’m the big cheese of this sneaky little club of Gadianton; and I reckon the way things are run is mighty good; it’s been around for ages and passed on down to us.
Now I’m writin’ this letter to ya, Lachoneus, hopin’ you’ll turn over your lands and your stuff without spillin’ any blood, so my people can get back their rights and keep their government, ‘cause they’ve left ya ‘cause you been wicked, holdin’ back their rights. If ya don’t, I’ll be lookin’ to settle the score. I am Giddianhi.
And when Lachoneus got that letter, he was downright shocked, ‘cause of the audacity of Giddianhi askin’ for the Nephite land, and threatenin’ the people, and talkin’ 'bout avenging folks who hadn’t even wronged nobody but themselves for runnin’ off to those nasty robbers.
Now lemme tell ya, Lachoneus wasn’t no pushover; he was a fair man who wouldn’t let a robber scare him none; so he didn’t pay mind to Giddianhi’s demands but told his folks to pray to the Lord for strength ‘cause them robbers was fixin’ to come down on ‘em.
Yep, he sent a word out to all the folks, tellin’ ‘em to gather up their women, their young’uns, their livestock, and all their things, ‘cept for their land, all in one place.
And he got them fortifications built all ‘round, strong as a bull, and made sure there was armies, both Nephites and Lamanites, watchin’ out for ‘em from the robbers come day or night.
He told ‘em, “As long as the Lord is livin', if ya don’t turn from your wicked ways and cry out to Him, you ain't gonna get saved from those Gadianton robbers.”
And man, Lachoneus’s words were so powerful and inspirin’ that they scared the livin’ daylights outta everybody; and they sure put all their might into doin’ what Lachoneus said.
Next thing ya know, Lachoneus went and picked chief captains over all the Nephite armies, to lead ‘em when them robbers come at ‘em.
Now the top dog of all them chief captains was named Gidgiddoni, and he was the greatest commander of the Nephite armies.
Now it was a common thing for the Nephites to choose their chief captains, unless they was in a rough patch, as someone who had revelation and could prophesy; so this Gidgiddoni was a real prophet, same as the main judge.
So the people yelled out to Gidgiddoni: “Pray to the Lord, and let’s climb them hills and head out into the wild to take the fight to those robbers and haul ‘em out from their own turf.”
But Gidgiddoni shot back, “The Lord says no; if we go up against ‘em, He’ll hand us right over into their clutches; so let’s gear up in the middle of our lands, gather all our armies, and wait for ‘em to come at us; ‘cause as long as the Lord is around, if we do this, He’ll put ‘em right in our hands.”
And it came to pass in the seventeenth year, towards the end of the year, Lachoneus’s word had spread all over the land, and folks took their horses, chariots, cattle, flocks, herds, grain, and everything, marchin’ out by the thousands ‘til they all got to where they was supposed to gather to defend against their foes.
The spot they picked was called Zarahemla, and the land betwixt Zarahemla and Bountiful, right to the line that separates Bountiful from Desolation.
And believe it or not, there was thousands of people called Nephites who got themselves together in this land. Lachoneus made sure they gathered in the southern land ‘cause of that big ol’ curse weighin’ down on the northward land.
And they set themselves up strong against their enemies, stayin’ in one place, and one group, scared of what Lachoneus had said, so much so that they turned from all their sins, prayin’ to the Lord their God to save ‘em when their foes came round for a fight.
They was mighty sad ‘cause of them enemies. And Gidgiddoni made sure they built all sorts of weapons for war, makin’ strong armor, shields, and bucklers, just like he showed ‘em.
