Well, let me just tell ya, at the end of that ol' eighteen year, those pesky robbers were gettin' ready to throw down, comin' down from the hills, mountains, and the wilds, settlin' into lands that the Nephites had just scooted on from, all them towns left empty-like.
But you see, down in those lands all deserted by the Nephites, there weren't no wild critters nor game for them robbers to munch on, 'cept what they could find out in the wilds.
Them robbers just couldn't make do 'less they were out in the wilderness lookin' for grub; the Nephites had left their homes all barren and loaded up their flocks and herds, all huddled together in one group.
So, there just wasn’t much chance for them robbers to steal some food, unless they decided to dive right into a fight with the Nephites; and believe me, the Nephites were all ready to rumble, with a whole heap of folks, sittin' on a pile of provisions, horses, cattle, and all sorts of critters, ready to last 'em for seven whole years, hopin' to wipe them robbers off the face of the earth; and that’s how that eighteenth year rolled on by.
Then come the nineteenth year, and Giddianhi figured it was high time to saddle up and head into battle with the Nephites, since there wasn’t no way they could get by without robbin’ and killin’.
And they were too scared to spread themselves thin tryin' to grow any crops, 'cause they reckoned the Nephites would come right on over and take 'em down; so Giddianhi told his crew they best be goin' to war against the Nephites this year.
Then they rolled up for battle; it was the sixth month, and I tell ya, it was a fierce day they showed up for a fight; they looked every bit like a gang of robbers, all dressed up grim-like, wearin’ lamb skins dyed in blood, with their heads shaved and wearin’ head-plates; and let me tell ya, Giddianhi’s army looked terrifying with all that armor and the blood stains.
But when the Nephites laid eyes on Giddianhi’s bunch, they hit the ground and cried out to the Lord, beggin’ Him to spare 'em and save 'em from their enemies.
Well, when Giddianhi's crew heard that, they started hollerin' right loud, thinkin' the Nephites were scared stiff 'cause of their fierce lookin' army.
But they was wrong, mighty wrong, 'cause the Nephites weren’t scared of them at all; they feared their God and asked Him for protection; so when Giddianhi's troops charged at 'em, the Nephites were ready to face 'em head-on; yep, they were tough with the Lord’s strength behind 'em.
And the fight kicked off in the sixth month, and let me tell ya, it was fierce, real fierce, the bloodshed was something terrible, like nothin’ seen before by the people of Lehi since he made his way outta Jerusalem.
And even with all the threats and curses Giddianhi had barked out, the Nephites wiped the floor with 'em, sendin’ ‘em runnin' back.
Then Gidgiddoni shouted for his troops to chase ‘em all the way to the edge of the wilds, not lettin’ up on any folks that fell into their hands; and that’s just what they did, takin’ 'em down to the borders of the wilderness until they’d done what Gidgiddoni commanded.
Now Giddianhi, who had bravely stood his ground, found himself on the run; but wearin’ out from all that fightin’, he was caught and put down. And that was the end of ol’ Giddianhi the robber.
Then the armies of the Nephites made their way back to safety. And just like that, the nineteenth year rolled on by, and the robbers didn't come back to battle again; nor did they show their faces in the twentieth year.
In the twenty-first year, they didn’t come fumblin’ up to fight, but they surrounded the Nephites, thinkin’ if they cut ‘em off from their lands, like a fish in a net, they could make ‘em give in to their demands.
They picked themselves a new boss man named Zemnarihah; so it was he who got the siege goin'.
But let me tell ya, that worked in the Nephites' favor; the robbers just couldn’t hang around long enough to put much pressure on ‘em, 'cause the Nephites had stockpiled too much grub.
And the robbers, well, they didn’t have much to eat, just enough to scrape on, which they managed to scrounge up in them woods.
And it turned out the wildlife was scarce in the wilds, so them robbers were fixin’ to starve real soon.
Meanwhile, the Nephites were continually marchin’ out both day and night, hittin’ 'em hard, and takin’ ‘em out by the thousands.
As you might imagine, the folks under Zemnarihah started wantin’ to back out of their plan, what with the heavy losses they faced night and day.
Then Zemnarihah commanded his people to pull back from the siege and head up north to the far edges of the land.
And now, Gidgiddoni saw what they were doin’ and figured out their weakness from not havin’ enough food and all the killin’ they’d taken on, so he sent his troops out at night, blockin’ off their way of escape and settin’ up camp in their path.
They did this all sneaky-like in the night, gettin’ ahead of those robbers, so when the robbers started movin’ the next day, they ran smack into the Nephite armies, caught between the front and the back.
And the robbers down south were pinned in too, and every bit of this was done by Gidgiddoni's orders.
Many thousands ended up givin’ themselves up to the Nephites, and the rest? Well, they didn’t make it.
Zemnarihah, their new boss man, was caught and hung up on a tree till he took his last breath. Once they made sure he was gone, they dropped that ol' tree down to the ground and shouted loud and clear:
"May the Lord keep His folks righteous, so that they can take down anyone tryin’ to hurt 'em with their secret plans, just like this fella here has been brought low."
And they let out a great cheer, all together shoutin’: "May the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob keep this people righteous, as long as they call on His name for help."
Then they all broke out singin’ and givin' thanks to their God for the mighty things He done for 'em, keepin’ ‘em safe from their foes.
And they hollered: "Hallelujah to the Most High God!" And they cried out: "Blessed be the name of the Lord God Almighty, the Most High God."
Their hearts were just overflowing with joy, shedin' tears for the goodness of God in savin’ 'em from their enemies; and they knew it was their change of heart and humility that had pulled ‘em from the brink of ruin.
