Well now, let me tell ya, there wasn’t a single soul 'mongst the Nephites that doubted what them holy prophets had said; they were all fully convinced it was gonna happen, no doubt about it.
And they realized it just made sense that Christ had shown up, what with all them signs that had been poppin' up, just like those prophets said; because of what they'd seen happenin' already, they figured everything was gonna go down just like they said it would.
So, they up and left behind all their sins, their wicked ways, and their foolin’ around, and they served God real earnest, day and night.
And would ya believe it, once they captured all them robbers, not a one got away unless they were dead, they tossed the prisoners in the pen and started preachin’ the good word to 'em; anyone who was willin’ to repent and promise not to kill no more got to walk free.
But those stubborn folks who wouldn’t make a promise, still holdin’ onto them nasty thoughts in their hearts, yeah, those that were makin’ threats against their own kin got what was comin’ to 'em—punished real good, just like the law said.
And thus, they put an end to all that wickedness and secretive, vile business they had goin’ on, with all that mischief and murderin' going down.
And so the twenty-second year passed by, then came the twenty-third, the twenty-fourth, and the twenty-fifth; just like that, five whole years went on by.
There was a whole heap of stuff that happened that some folks thought was mighty impressive; still, they couldn’t fit it all in this here book; shoot, this book couldn’t even hold a hundredth of what went down among so many folks in the span of twenty-five years.
But you see, there are records out there that keep track of everything this crowd done; and our buddy Nephi gave a shorter, yet truthful, account of it all.
So here I am, makin’ my record of these happenings based on what Nephi wrote on them plates called the plates of Nephi.
And here’s the kicker: I’m makin’ my record on plates I crafted with my very own hands.
And ya see, my name’s Mormon, named after the land of Mormon, where Alma went and got the church started among the folks; yep, the very first church established after their missteps.
I’m a follower of Jesus Christ, the Son of God. He’s the one who called me to spread His word among the folks so they could find everlasting life.
It’s been deemed necessary that I, by God’s will, fulfill the prayers of them holy ones who’ve passed on, based on their faith, by recordin’ all these happenings—
Yep, just a little record of what’s gone down since Lehi left Jerusalem all the way up till now.
So I’m puttin’ together my record from the stories shared by the folks before me, leadin’ up to the time I’m livin’ in now;
And then I’ll also jot down the things I’ve seen with my very own eyes.
I’m tellin' ya, the record I create is fair and true; yet, there’s plenty of stuff we just can’t put into words.
And now I'm fixin' to finish up what I've got to say about myself and move on to share what I’ve witnessed firsthand.
I’m Mormon, pure and simple, a descendant of Lehi. I’ve got plenty of reasons to be thankful to my God and Savior Jesus Christ for bringin’ our people outta Jerusalem (and no one knew it except Him and those He led outta that place) and for givin’ me and my folks so much wisdom for our souls’ salvation.
Sure as shootin’, He’s blessed the house of Jacob and been kind to the seed of Joseph.
And as long as Lehi’s kids have kept His commandments, He’s blessed ‘em and helped ‘em thrive, just like He promised.
Yep, I reckon He’s gonna bring back some folks from the seed of Joseph to know the Lord their God once again.
And as surely as the Lord’s alive, He'll gather up all the scattered remnants of Jacob’s seed from every corner of the earth, wherever they ended up.
And just like He promised all the house of Jacob, that covenant He made with ‘em’ll come to pass in His own good time, bringin’ back all the house of Jacob to know the covenant He’s made with ‘em.
Then they’re gonna know their Redeemer, Jesus Christ, the Son of God; and they’ll all be gathered back from the four corners of the earth to their own lands where they used to be, and just as the Lord lives, it’s gonna happen. Amen.
