Well now, lemme show ya somethin’ here. They didn’t get no king set up over the land; nah, in that thirtieth year, they went and wiped out the chief judge right on the judgment-seat, dead as a door nail.
Folks started fightin’ amongst themselves; they split up into tribes, every man clinged to his family, kin, and friends, and that there’s how they done wrecked the whole government.
Every tribe picked themselves a chief or a leader; so just like that, they started callin’ themselves tribes with their own big shots.
Now, listen here, there wasn’t a soul among ‘em who didn’t have a heap of family and plenty of kin and pals; ’cause of that, their tribes got pretty darn big.
All this ruckus happened, and they ain’t had no wars on their hands yet; and this here wickedness fell on the folks ‘cause they let themselves get wrapped up in Satan’s grip.
The rules of the government got tossed aside, all because of that secret gang made up of them kinfolk and pals of them murderin’ prophets.
Them folks got to fussin’ and fightin’, so much so that the more righteous folk were actin’ wicked; I tell ya, there was hardly a few good folks left.
So, six years went by and not much time had passed since the majority of the folks turned away from doin’ right, just like a dog goin' back to his vomit or a pig gettin’ back to wallerin’ in the mud.
Now this here secret gang that brought all that trouble gathered up together and plopped a fella named Jacob at the head of things;
They called him their king, so he became the big cheese over this wicked crew; he was one of the main ones who had his say against them prophets hollerin’ ‘bout Jesus.
But it turns out, they weren’t as many as the other tribes, who were all banded together, save for them leaders makin’ their own rules, each tribe doin’ their own thing; yet still, they was enemies, even if they wasn’t all righteous, they were united in hating those who made a promise to take down the government.
So, Jacob noticed that his enemies outnumbered ‘em, bein’ the king of this gang, he told his people they oughta skedaddle up to the northern part of the land, where they could build themselves a kingdom till they got some dissidents to join up (he sweet-talked ‘em, sayin’ there’d be plenty of dissenters) and they’d get strong enough to stand up against them tribes; and they went on ahead and did just that.
They moved so fast it was like nobody could slow ‘em down till they got clear away from the people. And that wrapped up the thirtieth year; that’s how things stood for the Nephite folks.
Now, in the thirty-first year, they were divided into tribes again, with every man stickin’ close to his family, kin, and buddies; yet they all kinda agreed not to pick no fights with each other, though they weren’t all on the same page with their laws and how to run things, seein’ as how them chiefs was callin’ the shots. They set some tight rules so one tribe wouldn’t mess with another, so in a way, they had a bit of peace in the land; but deep down, their hearts turned away from the good Lord, and they started stonin’ the prophets and throwin’ ‘em outta the mix.
Then Nephi—blessed with visits from angels and the Lord’s voice—what with seein’ angels and bein’ an eyewitness, got power to know all ‘bout Christ’s minstry, and he saw folks flip-floppin' from their good ways back to wickedness and all them nasty deeds;
So feelin’ real sad for ‘em ‘cause of their hard-heartedness and thick-headedness—he stepped right into the mix that same year, preachin’ loud and proud about changin’ ways and forgivin’ sins through faith in good ol’ Jesus.
He shared all sorts of things with ‘em; can’t write it all down, and even the part that could be written wouldn’t do it justice, so it ain’t all in this here book. Nephi was teachin’ with power and authority.
Now, folks got mad at him, ‘cause he showed more power than they did, and it just weren’t possible for ‘em to doubt what he was sayin’, ‘cause his faith in the Lord was so strong that angels showed up to help him out every day.
In the name of Jesus, he kicked out them devils and impure spirits; he even brought his brother back from the dead after they had stoned him and he was dead and gone, all ‘cause of the people.
And folks saw it happenin’, they couldn’t believe it and they were furious with him for his power; he went on to do many more miracles right in front of the folks, all done in the name of Jesus.
The thirty-first year rolled on by, and only a handful got converted to the Lord; but the ones that did sure let the folks know they’d been touched by the power and Spirit of God, which came from Jesus Christ, the one they believed in.
Anyone who had devils sent outta them, and who was healed of their sicknesses and troubles, showed it clearly to the folks that God’s Spirit had worked on ‘em, and they were healed; they put on a show of signs and even did some miracles among the people.
So the thirty-second year passed by too. And Nephi cried out to the folks right at the start of the thirty-third year; he preached repentance and the forgiveness of sins.
Now, keep in mind, there weren’t none who got brought to repentance who weren’t baptized in water.
So Nephi set up some men for this ministry, so all them folks who come to ‘em could get baptized in water, and this here was a witness and a testimony before God and the folks, that they had turned from their wickedness and got their sins washed away.
There were a whole bunch in that year’s beginning who were baptized for repentance; and most of that year rolled on by after that.
