Well now, let me spin you a yarn 'bout them Jaredites, takin' it from them twenty-four plates the good folks of Limhi found back in the days of King Mosiah.
Moroni starts to chop down them writings of Ether—he lays out Ether’s family tree too—And y’know, them Jaredites weren't all mixed up at the Tower of Babel—The Good Lord promised to lead 'em to a mighty fine patch of land and make 'em a big ol' nation.
And now, I’m fixin’ to tell ya ‘bout them ancient folks that got wiped out by the Lord right here in this northern territory.
I’m pullin’ my tale from them twenty-four plates that Limhi’s people found, which folks call the Book of Ether.
Now, I reckon the first part of this here record talks 'bout how the world got made, and Adam too, all the way up to that big ol’ tower, and all that went on with folks up till then, well, that stuff’s got to be in the hands of the Jews—
So I ain't gonna write none of that goin' back to Adam, 'cause it’s all on them plates; and anybody who finds 'em gets the whole kit and caboodle.
But lemme tell ya, I ain't givin’ the whole shebang, just part of it, from that tower down to when they met their end.
So this is how I’m tellin’ the tale. The fella who wrote this was Ether, and he was kin to Coriantor.
Coriantor was the son of Moron.
And Moron was the son of Ethem.
And Ethem was the son of Ahah.
And Ahah was the son of Seth.
And Seth was the son of Shiblon.
And Shiblon was the son of Com.
And Com was the son of Coriantum.
And Coriantum was the son of Amnigaddah.
And Amnigaddah was the son of Aaron.
And Aaron was from Heth, who was the son of Hearthom.
And Hearthom was the son of Lib.
And Lib was the son of Kish.
And Kish was the son of Corom.
And Corom was the son of Levi.
And Levi was the son of Kim.
And Kim was the son of Morianton.
And Morianton was kin to Riplakish.
And Riplakish was the son of Shez.
And Shez was the son of Heth.
And Heth was the son of Com.
And Com was the son of Coriantum.
And Coriantum was the son of Emer.
And Emer was the son of Omer.
And Omer was the son of Shule.
And Shule was the son of Kib.
And Kib was the son of Orihah, who was the son of Jared;
Now Jared and his brother brought their families and a few others out from that big ol’ tower, right at the time when the Lord made folks' tongues all tangled up, and He got mad and said 'fore long they'd be spread out all over the earth; and just like He said, folks got scattered.
So the brother of Jared, he was a big ol’ strong fella, real favored by the Lord, said to Jared, his brother: Hey, call on the Lord, and maybe He won’t make us all confused so we can still chit-chat.
Well, that brother of Jared done cried out to the Lord, and the Lord took pity on Jared; so He didn’t mix up Jared’s words, 'n they weren’t left in a tangle.
Then Jared told his brother: Call out again to the Lord, maybe He’ll turn back His anger from our friends so they don’t get all jumbled up either.
So it happened that the brother of Jared cried out again, and the Lord had compassion on their buddies and their families too, so they all stayed clear of that mess.
Then Jared said again to his brother: Go on and ask the Lord if He’s ‘bout to kick us outta this land, and if so, ask Him where we oughta go. Who knows, maybe the Lord’s got a better land in mind for us? And if that's the case, let’s stick close to the Lord so we can inherit it.
Then the brother of Jared went on and called out to the Lord just like Jared told him to.
And the Lord heard the brother of Jared, had a heart for him, and said to him:
Gather up your flocks, male and female, of every kind; and also get all the seeds of the earth you can find; and bring your families; and don’t forget Jared your brother and his kin; and all your friends and their families too.
And when you’re done with that, head on down into that valley to the north. I’ll meet ya there, and I’ll lead you into a land that’s better than any other land out there.
And there I'll bless you and your descendants, and raise up a great nation from your line, and your brother’s line, and all who follow you. Ain’t nobody gonna be bigger than that nation I’m fixin’ to raise up from your bloodline, all over this great big earth. And I’ll do this for you 'cause you've been callin’ out to me for so long now.
