Well now, back in the days of that ol' boy Com, there was a heap of prophets showin' up, tellin' folks that if they didn’t turn their lives ‘round, that great crowd was gonna be gone for good, and all they had to do was turn to the Lord and quit all them murders and evil deeds.
But here's the kicker, them folks didn't want nothin' to do with what the prophets had to say, so them prophets skedaddled over to Com lookin’ for some safety, ‘cause them folks wanted to wipe ‘em out.
So they started throwin’ all kinds of predictions at Com, and bless his heart, he had himself a good life after that.
He lived to be an old fella, had himself a son named Shiblom, and when he kicked the bucket, Shiblom took the reins. But wouldn't ya know it, Shiblom's brother wasn’t too happy ‘bout that and boy, did a war break out all over the place.
Well, Shiblom's brother sure stirred up a mess and got it in his head that all them prophets predictin’ doom for the people needed to be taken outta the picture.
Then things got rough all over the land, ‘cause those prophets were sayin’ a big ol’ curse was gonna come down if folks didn’t clean up their act, and it was gonna be worse than anything ever seen before, leavin' bones all over, like piles of dirt if they didn’t stop bein’ so wicked.
But shoot, they didn’t listen to the Lord and just kept on with their corrupt ways, and next thing ya know, fights broke out all over, along with a heap of famines and sicknesses that caused a whole lotta destruction, the likes of which nobody had seen in ages – all this happened while Shiblom was around.
Eventually, folks started realizin’ their mistakes, and as they did, the Lord showed 'em some mercy.
Then Shiblom ended up gettin' himself killed, and that fella Seth got caught up in captivity, settlin’ in for a life behind bars.
Then Ahah, his boy, took over the throne, runnin' things his way for the rest of his days, doin’ all sorts of nasty things that spilled a whole lotta blood, and he didn’t stick around long either.
Now Ethem, bein’ in Ahah's family tree, hopped on the throne too and was up to no good just like the rest.
Then time rolled on, and in Ethem’s time, a whole bunch of prophets came back around, warnin' folks again that the Lord was plannin' to wipe 'em clean off the earth if they didn't quit their shortcuts and mischief.
But then, wouldn't ya know it, the folks just shut their hearts up tighter than a clam and wouldn’t listen, so the prophets were all sad and just left ‘em be.
Now Ethem kept on with his bad judgments his whole life and had himself a boy named Moron. Come to find out, Moron took over next and didn’t do much better before the Lord than Ethem did.
Then a big ol’ ruckus started amongst the folks ‘cause of that secret club lookin’ to get power and riches; a tough guy rose up amongst 'em and took a swing at Moron, even knockin' half the kingdom right outta his hands, and he ran that half for quite a stretch.
But then Moron got his act together and reclaimed his kingdom back.
Wouldn't you know, then another strong fella popped up, and he was kin to the brother of Jared.
Next thing ya know, he takes down Moron and grabs the kingdom for himself; so Moron had to sit back in captivity for the rest of his days and had a son named Coriantor.
Now Coriantor found himself stuck in chains all his life.
During Coriantor’s time, plenty of prophets came by again, pointing out marvelous things and hollerin’ for the folks to mend their ways, sayin’ if they didn’t, the Lord God was gonna come down with judgment to wipe ‘em out.
And that the Lord would send another group of folks in to take over the land, just like He did with their ancestors.
But them folks pushed away all the prophets' words, what with their sneaky society and all their wicked ways.
Then Coriantor had himself a boy named Ether, and wiggle on outta here, he died, never gettin' outta that captivity his whole life.
