Well, let me tell y’all, back in the day when Ether was around, ol' Coriantumr was the big boss man over the whole dang place. 
Now, Ether, he was one of them prophets, right? So, he stepped up during Coriantumr's reign, feelin’ the Spirit real strong and just couldn’t help but preach to folks.
He was hollerin’ from sunrise to sunset, tellin’ folks to put their faith in God and turn their lives 'round, or else they’d face the end of the line, saying that by faith, everything gets done.
So, whoever believes in God can sure enough hope for a better life after this one, yeah, even a cozy spot right next to God. That hope comes from faith, anchorin’ folks’ souls, keepin’ 'em steady and doin’ good deeds, givin' glory to God.
Now, Ether prophesied some mighty wonderous things, but folks just didn’t believe ‘em ‘cause they couldn’t see nothin’.
And now, here I am, Moroni, wanna chat a bit 'bout these matters; let me show y’all that faith is what y’all hope for but can’t see. So, don’t argue just 'cause ya can’t see it; ya won’t get a witness ‘til after you put your faith to the test. 
It's 'cause of faith that Christ showed himself to our ancestors after he rose up from the dead. He didn’t reveal himself until they had faith; gotta be some folks with faith out there, ‘cause he didn’t show up to everyone.
But thanks to folks' faith, he revealed himself to the world and put in a good word for the Father, settin’ up a way for others to get a taste of that heavenly gift, hopin’ for what they haven’t laid eyes on.
So, listen up, y'all can have hope too, and get in on that gift, if y’all just have a bit of faith.
Y’all see, it was by faith that them old-timers got called to the holy order set by God.
So, it was by faith that Moses got the law laid down. But God, through his Son, paved a way that’s even better ‘cause, contendin’ with faith, it’s all been made right.
If there ain't no faith in folks, God can’t work no miracles for ‘em; that’s why he didn’t show himself ‘til folks had faith.
You see, it was Alma and Amulek’s faith that knocked that prison down to the ground.
And it was Nephi and Lehi’s faith that switched up the Lamanites, lettin’ ‘em get baptized with fire and the Holy Ghost.
And it was Ammon and his buddies’ faith that worked some mighty miracles with the Lamanites.
Yep, all them miracle folks pulled it off ‘cause of their faith, even before Jesus showed up and after too.
And those three disciples were promised they wouldn’t see death till after they had faith; they didn’t get that promise until their faith kicked in.
Ain't nobody done miracles ‘til after they had faith; so first, they had to believe in the Son of God.
And there were many whose faith was so strong, even before the good Lord came, they couldn’t be held back from the veil, seein’ things with their own eyes that they had believed in, and boy were they happy!
And hey now, we see in this here record that one of ‘em was the brother of Jared; he had such a powerful faith in God that when God pointed his finger, the brother of Jared could see it plain as day ‘cause of the promise he had by faith.
And after the brother of Jared saw the Lord’s finger, due to that promise he had by faith, the Lord just couldn’t keep anything hidden from him, showin’ him everything ‘cause he was no longer kept behind that veil.
And it’s by faith that my ancestors got the promise that these things should be passed down to their kin through the Gentiles; that’s why the Lord gave me the word, yeah, even Jesus Christ.
So, I told him, “Lord, them Gentiles are gonna make fun of us ‘cause we ain't so good at writin’; sure, you made us strong in speakin’ through faith, but writin'? Not so much. You made our people talk a whole lot, thanks to the Holy Ghost you blessed us with.
But you also made our writin’ kinda rough ‘cause our hands ain’t the best. You see, you didn’t give us the strong writin’ skills like the brother of Jared; he could write like nobody's business, and folks could read what he wrote real good.
Our words pack a punch, sure, but it don’t show up on paper like it should, so when we try to write, we trip over our own words, and I worry the Gentiles’ll poke fun at us.
And when I spilled that out, the Lord spoke back to me, sayin’: “Fools will mock, but they’ll be the ones cryin.' My grace is just right for the humble, so no one’s gonna take advantage of your weakness.
If folks come to me, I’ll make sure they see their weakness. I give folks weakness so they can stay humble; my grace is good enough for all those who humble themselves before me. If they do that, and have faith, I’ll turn their weak stuff into something strong.
Look, I’ll show them Gentiles their weakness, and I’ll show ‘em that faith, hope, and charity are the keys to comin’ to me—the wellspring of all things good and right.
And I, Moroni, heard these words and felt comforted, saying: “O Lord, let your righteous will be done, ‘cause I know you work with folks according to their faith.”
For the brother of Jared told that mountain Zerin to move—and it moved. If he hadn’t had faith, that mountain wouldn’t have budged; so, you work after folks have faith.
That’s how you showed yourself to your disciples; after they had faith, and called on your name, you revealed yourself to ‘em with great power.
I also remember you said you’d built a house for man, even among the mansions of your Father, where folks can have a better hope; so, y’all gotta hope, or else you ain’t gettin’ in where you’ve prepared a spot.
And again, I remember you said you loved the world so much, even layin’ down your life for it, just so you could pick it back up again and make room for the children of men.
Now, I know that love you have for all mankind is charity; without that charity, folks can’t claim their place in the mansions you’ve got set aside for ‘em.
So, I know what you said, that if the Gentiles don’t have charity, ‘specially 'cause of our weakness, you’ll test ‘em, take away their talents, and give those gifts to folks who got more to offer.
And I prayed to the Lord, askin’ him to give grace to the Gentiles, so they could have that charity.
And it came to pass that the Lord replied, “If they ain’t got charity, it don’t matter to you, you’ve been faithful, so your garments will be clean. ‘Cause you see your weakness, you will be made strong, even takin’ a seat in the place I’ve got ready in my Father’s mansion.”
And now I, Moroni,’m sayin’ goodbye to the Gentiles and my brothers whom I love, ‘til we meet up at the judgment seat of Christ, where everyone’ll see that my clothes ain’t stained with your blood.
And then you’ll know I’ve seen Jesus, and he talked to me face to face, plain and simple, like two folks chattin’ in their own language about these matters; 
And I’ve only written down a bit ‘cause my writin' ain't so good.
And now, I’d advise y’all to go look for this Jesus that the prophets and apostles scribbled about, so you can have the grace of God the Father, and the Lord Jesus Christ, and the Holy Ghost keepin' company with you for all time. Amen.
