Well now, lemme tell ya, ol' Ether's chattin' 'bout a New Jerusalem that's fixin' to be built right here in America by the kin of Joseph—he's prophesyin’, gettin' kicked outta town, writin' down the tales of the Jaredites, and callin' out the end of them Jaredites—seems like war's brewin' all over the place.
So here I am, Moroni, tryin' to wrap up my story 'bout the folks that got wiped out that I been tellin' ya 'bout.
‘Cause ya see, they just flat-out ignored all of Ether's words; he laid it all out for 'em, from the get-go of mankind; and when the waters pulled back from this here land it turned out to be a real fine piece of property, better than all the rest, a land picked by the Lord himself; so the Lord wanted all y’all livin’ here to serve Him proper.
And it was the spot for the New Jerusalem, comin’ down from the heavens, and the Lord's holy place.
Now, Ether he seen the days when Christ showed up, and he started talkin’ about a New Jerusalem on this here land.
He also yapped 'bout the house of Israel, and the old Jerusalem where Lehi hailed from—once it got wiped out, it was gonna rise up again, a holy town fer the Lord; so it wasn’t exactly new, seein' as it had been around before; but it sure enough was gonna get rebuilt, turn into a holy city for the Lord; and it'd be a place for the house of Israel—
And that a New Jerusalem was gonna spring up on this here land, fer the leftover kin of Joseph, and there's some clues to back that up.
Just like Joseph brought his daddy down to Egypt, he ended up dyin’ there too; so the Lord, bein' merciful, brought some of Joseph's kin outta Jerusalem, wouldn’t let ‘em go to waste, just like He was merciful to Joseph’s papa.
So then, the leftover folks from Joseph's house done got themselves a spot on this here land; it's gonna be their home; and they gonna build a holy town up for the Lord, like that ol' Jerusalem; and they ain't gonna be confused no more, 'til the end comes when the whole earth's gonna vanish.
And there's gonna be a brand new sky and a brand new earth; it’s gonna be a whole lot like the old one, cept that old one's gone, and everythin’ gonna be fresh and new.
Then comes the New Jerusalem, and bless their hearts, them what lives there, 'cause they wearin’ white ’cause of the blood of the Lamb; and they’s counted among the leftover folks of Joseph, who’s from the house of Israel.
Then the old Jerusalem’s gon’ show up too; and bless them folks too, ’cause they been scrubbed clean in the Lamb’s blood; they’s the ones scattered all over and gathered back from all directions, even from the north, and they’re gettin' to claim the promise God made to their forefather, Abraham.
And when all this goes down, it lines right up with the verse that says, them that was first is gonna be last, and them that was last is gonna be first.
Now, I was about to scribble some more down, but I was told to hold up; but man, Ether’s prophecies were somethin’ wild; they just tossed him aside like yesterday’s trash; so he hid himself away in a rock by daylight, and at night he’d sneak out, seein' the stuff that was comin' on the people.
As he was snug as a bug in that rock, he kept writein’ the rest of this here record, watchin' the folks get taken down at night.
Would ya believe it, that very same year he got kicked outta the crowd, a big ol’ war broke out, folks was risin’ up, strong folks, tryin' to take Coriantumr down with their sneaky plans of evil, which we've talked about.
Now Coriantumr, he studied up on all sorts of war stuff and how to outsmart folks; so he went to battle against them out to get him.
But he didn't wanna turn from his ways, neither did his pretty sons and daughters; the same goes for Cohor’s pretty kids; or Corihor’s littlest ones; no, sir, not a single pretty face on this whole earth was feelin’ bad 'bout their wrongdoings.
So it got to where, in that first year with Ether hidin’ in that rock, plenty folks got themselves killed by those sneaky crews, tryin’ to take down Coriantumr so they could grab the throne.
Well, that’s how it went down, Coriantumr's boys fought a whole lot and bled a whole bunch.
Then in year two, the Lord sent word to Ether, tellin’ him to go and holler at Coriantumr, sayin’ if he’d turn ‘round, along with his whole family, the Lord would hand over the kingdom and spare the folks—
Otherwise, them folks was gonna get wiped, and only he and no one else in his family was gonna live to see what's comin’ with the prophecies about another crowd takin’ the land for their own; plus, Coriantumr was gonna be buried by them; and every single soul except Coriantumr himself was gonna get destroyed.
Well, wouldn’t ya know it, Coriantumr didn't change his tune, neither did his family, nor the folks; the wars just kept on goin'; they even tried to take out Ether, but he skedaddled again into that rock.
Then out popped this fella named Shared, who went up against Coriantumr too; he laid the smackdown on him, so much so that in year three, he had Coriantumr all chained up.
But then, in year four, Coriantumr’s boys came back and gave Shared a good beatin', takin' the kingdom back for their daddy.
Now a war broke out all over the land, every fella with their crew fightin’ for what they wanted.
And there was thieves and just all kinda bad business was goin' down everywhere.
Then it happened, Coriantumr got wild mad at Shared, gatherin' up his armies to go against him; they met up in the valley of Gilgal, and oh boy, that battle got real heated.
For three days, Shared was throwin’ punches at him. Finally, Coriantumr got the upper hand and chased him all the way to the plains of Heshlon.
Then on them plains, Shared wasn’t done and gave Coriantumr another good whup, pushin’ him right back to the valley of Gilgal.
And Coriantumr, bein’ stubborn, jumped back on Shared again in the valley of Gilgal, where he finally took him down and finished him off.
But Shared got a hit in on Coriantumr’s thigh, and ol’ Coriantumr didn't go to fightin’ for two whole years, while blood was spillin’ all over the land, and there weren't nobody to stop ‘em.
