Well, it all started that Jared and his brother, along with their families and a few friends and their families too, made their way down into this here valley goin' northward, and they called that valley Nimrod, named after some big ol' hunter, y’know? They brought along all their critters they gathered up, both the boys and the girls, of all sorts.
They set up some traps and caught them some birds; then they whipped up a vessel to haul in all the fish from the water.
And they also took along some deseret, which folks say means honey bee, and wouldn't you know it, they brought a whole swarm of bees and all kinds of seeds from the land.
So they got down into Nimrod Valley, and the Lord showed up and had a chat with Jared’s brother, but he didn’t see him ‘cause the Lord was hangin' out in a cloud.
Then the Lord told ‘em they needed to venture out into the wilderness, way out where no soul had ever been. He went ahead of ‘em talkin’ like he was right there in a cloud, giving ‘em directions on where to go.
They traveled through the wild and built themselves some barges to cross the waters, with the good Lord always guidin’ their way.
And the Lord didn’t want ‘em stoppin' beyond the sea out in the wild—he wanted ‘em to get on over to that promised land, a real special place above all others that he had set aside for good folks.
He had swore to Jared’s brother, all mad and wrathful-like, that whoever claimed this here promised land from then on was gonna serve him, the one true God, or they'd be swept away when his full wrath hit ‘em.
Now, y’all can see how God feels ‘bout this land—it's a promised land, and whoever gets ahold of it gotta serve God, or they’ll be done for when his wrath comes down, which happens when folks start a-gettin' too sinful.
‘Cause let me tell ya, this land’s choice above all other lands; so whoever owns it gotta serve God or be swept away 'cause that’s how it’s always been decreed. Ain't 'til the folks get fully iniquitous that they’ll be swept off.
And this message’s for y’all Gentiles, so you can catch wind of God’s decrees—that you can get right and not keep on with your sins 'til the time comes when you bring down God’s full wrath on yourselves, like the folks of this land have done before.
Look here, this land’s a mighty choice one, and any nation settlin' here gets to be free from bondage and captivity, and all them other nations under heaven, so long as they serve the God of this land, who’s none other than Jesus Christ, shown to us through our writings.
And now I’m gonna keep on with my tale; see, it came to be that the Lord led Jared and his crew to that great sea that splits the lands. So when they got to the sea, they pitched their tents and called the place Moriancumer; dang near lived in those tents right on the shore for four whole years.
When those four years wrapped up, the Lord popped back down to chat with Jared’s brother, stood in a cloud, and talked with him for three whole hours, seriously scoldin' him for not callin’ upon the Lord like he should've been doin'.
Jared’s brother felt real bad about what he done and called on the Lord for his folks with him. And the Lord told him: "I’ll forgive you and your kin, but don’t mess up again; ya gotta keep in mind, my Spirit ain’t always gonna strive with folks. If you let your sins grow ripe, you’ll be cut off from me.” And these here are my thoughts on the land I’m givin’ you—it’s a land that surely stands out above all others.
Then the Lord said: “Get to work and build them barges like you done before.” So Jared’s brother rolled up his sleeves and got to work, him and his kin, buildin' those barges just like the Lord instructed. They were little and light on the water, kinda like a bird floatin’ on the surface.
And they made 'em super tight, real snug like, so they could hold water just like a dish; the bottom of ‘em was tight like a dish; the sides were tight too; and the ends all peaked up; the top was tight like a dish; and each one was long as a tree; and when that door was shut, it was tight like a dish too.
So it went that Jared’s brother called out to the Lord sayin’: “Oh Lord, I’ve done what you told me to do, built those barges just like you said.”
And now he's sayin', “Lord, there ain't no light in ‘em; how we gonna steer these things? We gonna run outta air and perish, ‘cause we can only breathe the air that’s in here; if we don’t got no air, we’re goners.”
Then the Lord told Jared’s brother: “Here’s what you do—make a hole in the top and the bottom; when you’re gaspin’ for air, just open that hole to breathe. If the water's gettin' in, plug it back up so you don’t drown.”
And sure enough, Jared’s brother did just as the Lord commanded.
Then he called out to the Lord again, sayin': “Lord, look here, I've done what you asked; I made those vessels for my folks, but there’s still no light in ‘em. Will you let us cross this big ol' water in the dark?”
The Lord said to him: “What do you want me to do so y’all can have light in your vessels? Can’t have windows ‘cause they’ll get smashed; also, don’t be takin’ fire with you, ‘cause y’all ain’t gonna be travelin' by firelight.”
'Cause here's the thing, y’all are gonna be like a whale out there in the sea, gettin’ tossed by them monster waves. But fear not, I’ll pull you back up from the depths of the sea; the winds are blowin’ outta my mouth, and I’ve sent forth the rains and floods.
And look, I'm makin’ preparations for these challenges; you can’t cross this vast deep unless I get you ready for those waves and winds and floods comin' your way. So what do you want me to prepare for y’all so you can have light when you’re swallowed up in the deep blue sea?
