Well now, it happened that the brother of Jared, (there was a total of eight boats ready to go) trekked up the mountain they called Shelem, 'cause it was just way up there, and he carved himself out sixteen little rocks; they were sparkly white like clean glass, y’all. He hauled 'em up on his hands to the top of that mountain, and hollered out to the Lord, sayin':
Oh Lord, You mentioned we gotta face them floods. Now look here, Lord, don’t you be mad at me for bein' weak, 'cause I know way too well You’re holy and sittin’ high up there, while we’re just lowly folks down here; we’re all messed up from that fall and our hearts just keep bein’ bad; but still, Lord, You told us to call on You, so we can get what we need from You.
Well, Lord, You’ve given us a good whuppin’ 'cause of our wrongdoings, and forced us out here in the wilderness for way too many years; but, bless Your heart, You’ve been good to us. So, Lord, have a heart and don’t let Your anger fall on this here people, and don’t let ‘em drown in this wild ocean in the dark; look at these little stones I made outta that rock.
Now, I know, Lord, You got all the might, and can do what You please for us folks; so go on and touch these stones, Lord, with Your finger, and get 'em ready to shine when it’s dark; they need to light our way while we cross this big ol’ sea.
Yeah, Lord, You can do this, we know You got the power, even if it seems small to us folks down here.
And just like that, when the brother of Jared finished sayin’ all that, the Lord reached out His hand and touched them stones one by one with His finger. And the veil was lifted off the brother of Jared’s eyes, and he saw the Lord’s finger; it looked just like a man’s finger, made of flesh and blood, and boy, the brother of Jared hit the ground 'cause he was scared to death.
And the Lord noticed he was flat on the ground and said to him: Get up, why are you down there?
He replied to the Lord: I saw Your finger, and I was afraid You’d strike me down; I had no clue You had a body like that.
And the Lord told him: 'Cause of your faith, you’ve seen that I can take on flesh and blood; ain’t nobody ever come to me with faith as strong as yours; if it wasn’t so, you couldn’t have seen my finger. You seein’ more than that?
And he replied: No, Lord; just show Yourself to me.
And the Lord asked him: Do you believe what I'm about to tell ya?
And he said: Sure do, Lord, I know You're tellin' the truth, 'cause You’re a God of truth, and You don’t lie.
And when he said that, well, the Lord revealed Himself to him and said: Since you know these things, you’re saved from that fall; now you’re back in my presence; that's why I’m showing myself to ya.
Lookie here, I’m the one who was set up since the world started to save my people. Yup, that’s me, Jesus Christ. I’m both the Father and the Son. In me, all folks can have life, and it’s eternal for them who believe in my name; they’ll be my sons and daughters.
And I’ve never showed myself to anyone I created, 'cause no one’s had faith in me like you do. Can ya see that you’re made in my own image? Yeah, everyone was made at the start just like me.
Look here, this body you see is the body of my spirit; I made man after the body of my spirit; just like I’m showing myself to you as a spirit, I’ll show myself to my people in the flesh.
And now, I, Moroni, gotta say I can’t give a full account of all this stuff that’s written, so it’s enough for me to say that Jesus showed Himself to this man in spirit, just like He did to the Nephites.
And He took care of him just like He did with the Nephites; all this was so this man would know He was God, 'cause of the many mighty things the Lord had done for him.
And since this man knew what he knew, he just couldn’t help but see behind the veil; and he saw Jesus’ finger, and when he did, he hit the ground scared, knowing it was the Lord’s finger; he had no doubt left, 'cause he knew with all his heart.
So, with that perfect understanding of God, he couldn’t be kept from behind the veil; he saw Jesus, and He took care of him.
And it happened that the Lord said to the brother of Jared: Now listen, don’t you let what you seen and heard go out to the folks until it’s time for me to show off my name in the flesh; so, you keep all this close, don’t show it to no one.
And when you come to me, write it all down and seal it so nobody can figure it out; you’re gonna write it in a way they can't read at all.
And look, I’m givin’ you these two stones, and you’re gonna seal them too with the stuff you write down.
'Cause see, the way you gonna write it, I’ve made it all jumbled up, so in my own time, these stones will show folks what you wrote about.
And when the Lord said that, He showed the brother of Jared all the folks of the earth that ever was and all that’s yet to come; He didn’t hold back any of it from his view, even to the ends of the earth.
He’d told him before that if he believed, he could see everything—so the Lord wasn’t holding back, 'cause He knew He could show him all things.
And the Lord said to him: Write this all down and seal it up; I’ll show it again when the time's right to the children of men.
And it happened that the Lord told him to seal up those two stones he got, and don’t show them to nobody, 'til the Lord shows ‘em to the children of men.
