Well now, the Lord told the brother of Jared to skedaddle down that mountain after bein' in His presence and write down all that he seen; and they wasn’t allowed to show up for folks till after He got lifted up on that cross; that's why King Mosiah kept 'em under wraps, so they wouldn’t make an appearance before the world till after Christ showed Himself to His people.
And once Christ really did show Himself to His folks, He made it clear that they should bring those things to light.
But now, after all that, everybody done faded away into doubt; ain't nobody left ‘cept them Lamanites, and they gone and turned their backs on the gospel of Christ; so here I am told to stash 'em away in the ground again.
Looky here, I done wrote down on these plates the very things the brother of Jared laid his eyes on; and there ain't been nothin' greater brought to light than what was shown to the brother of Jared.
So the Lord told me to write 'em down; and I sure did. And He told me to seal 'em up tight; He also told me to seal the explanation of 'em too; so I went ahead and sealed up the interpreters, just like the Lord said.
The Lord said to me: These things ain't gonna go out to the Gentiles till they get their act together and clean up their wrongdoings before Him.
And on that day when they decide to have faith in me, like the brother of Jared did, so they can be made pure in me, then I'll show 'em all the things the brother of Jared saw, even all my revelations, says Jesus Christ, the Son of God, the Big Boss of the heavens and the earth, and all that's in 'em.
And if anyone wanna argue with the word of the Lord, let 'em be cursed; and if anyone denies these things, let 'em be cursed too; 'cause I'm not gonna show 'em nuthin' greater, says Jesus Christ; 'cause I’m the one doin' the talkin'.
And when I give the word, them heavens gonna open and close; and when I say it, the ground's gonna shake; and my command gonna make folks disappear, just like they was burnt up.
And if ya don’t believe my words, then ya ain't believing my disciples neither; and if it turns out I ain't talkin', y’all judge for yourselves; ‘cause y’all gonna know it's me speakin' at the end.
But the ones who believe what I’ve said, I’ll visit 'em with my Spirit, and they gonna know and testify. 'Cause my Spirit gonna show ‘em these things are true; it gets folks doin' good.
And anything that gets folks to do good is from me; ‘cause good ain’t comin' from nowhere but me. I’m the one that leads folks to all that’s good; if ya don’t believe what I say, then you’re not gonna believe I'm who I say I am; and if ya don’t believe me, ya ain't gonna believe the Father who sent me. ‘Cause listen here, I am the Father, I am the light, the life, and the truth of this whole world.
Come on over here to me, you Gentiles, and I’ll show ya the greater things, that knowledge all hid up 'cause folks ain't believing.
Come on over here to me, you house of Israel, and I will show ya all the great things the Father got laid up for ya since the beginning of time; and it ain’t got to ya ‘cause of doubt.
Now listen, when you rip down that veil of doubt that keeps ya stuck in all that wickedness, hard-heartedness, and blindness, then you gonna see the great and marvelous things that have been hidden from ya since the foundation of this world—yeah, when you call on the Father in my name, with a broken heart and a humble spirit, then you gonna know that the Father remembered the promise He made to your ancestors, O house of Israel.
And then all my revelations that I had my servant John write down gonna be shown to all the people. Remember now, when y’all see these things, you’ll know the time's come for ‘em to be shown for real.
So when you receive this record, you can know the Father’s work has kicked off all over the land.
So, y’all best repent, all corners of the earth, come on over to me, and believe in my gospel, and get baptized in my name; ‘cause anyone who believes and gets baptized is gonna be saved; but if ya don’t believe, you’re gonna be in a heap of trouble; and signs gonna follow those who believe in my name.
And blessed is the one found faithful to my name at the end, ‘cause he gonna be lifted up to dwell in the kingdom prepared for him since the world's been laid down. And don’t forget, it’s me talkin’. Amen.
