Well, lemme tell ya, Moroni's fixin' to give y'all the scoop on Jared and his brother.
So after the Good Lord had prepped them stones that the brother of Jared lugged up that mountain, he came down and tossed them into them fancy vessels, one at each end; and lo and behold, them stones lit up like a firefly at dusk.
And just like that, the Lord made them stones shine even in the darkest times, givin' light to folks, young and old, so they wouldn’t have to paddle through them great waters without sight.
Now, when they’d prepped all sorts of grub, enough to keep ‘em full on the water, plus makin’ sure there was food for their critters, they climbed aboard them vessels or barges, and took off into the sea, settin’ their sights on the Lord.
Next thing ya know, the Lord whipped up a wild wind that blew over the waters towards that promised land; they were tossed around like a tumbleweed in a storm.
It sure was a rough ride, time and again they found themselves deep in the ocean’s belly, all due to them big ol’ waves crashin’ over ‘em, and the storms like a wild bullfight ‘cause of that fierce wind.
But no worries, when they sunk into the deep, they was all snug in their vessels, tight as a drum, and just like Noah’s ark; so when they got surrounded by all them waters, they cried out to the Lord, and He lifted ‘em back up to the surface.
That wind just wouldn’t let up, blowin’ towards that promised land while they floated around on the water; and they were headin’ on in the wind’s strong push.
They sang their hearts out to the Lord; yep, the brother of Jared was singin’ his praises all day long, and when night rolled around, they didn’t stop none.
And they kept gettin’ blown along; nothin’ from the deep blue sea could break ‘em, not even a whale could mess with ‘em; they always had their light, whether under the waves or above.
So they kept on floatin’ for a long stretch, three hundred and forty-four days right there on the water.
Finally, they hit the shore of that promised land. And when they touched down on that soil, they bowed down, humbled themselves before the Lord, and shed a few joyful tears 'cause of all the goodness He showed ‘em.
Then they stepped out on that land and got right to plowin’.
Now, Jared had four boys, and they went by the names Jacom, Gilgah, Mahah, and Orihah.
And let me tell ya, the brother of Jared was busy too, havin’ himself some sons and daughters.
Now, Jared’s buddies and his brother had about twenty-two folks in total; and they had themselves some young’uns too before they got to that promised land, so they started growin’ like weeds.
They learned to walk humble-like before the Lord, and they got some lessons from on high.
Next thing ya know, they started spreadin’ out all over the land, multiplyin’ and workin’ the earth, and they got strong as oxen in their new home.
Now, the brother of Jared was gettin’ up there in age, and he knew his time was comin’, so he said to Jared: Let’s gather the folks up so we can count ’em, figure out what they want from us before we head down to our final rest.
So the people came together. Now, the brother of Jared had twenty-two kids, and Jared had twelve, what with his four sons.
And they went ahead and counted their folks; after that, they asked ‘em what they wanted done before they kicked the bucket.
Well, the folks asked ‘em to anoint one of their boys to be their king.
But lemme tell ya, that weighed heavy on ‘em. The brother of Jared told ‘em: This here thing might just lead to trouble.
But Jared told his brother: Let ‘em have a king if that’s what they want. He said to ‘em: Pick one of our boys to be king, whoever ya reckon.
Next thing y’all know, they picked the firstborn of the brother of Jared, by the name of Pagag. But he turned it down and said no, he wouldn’t be their king. The people wanted his daddy to convince him, but his daddy wouldn’t do it; he told ‘em not to force anyone to be king.
So they tried pickin’ all Pagag’s brothers, but they all said no, sir.
And neither would the sons of Jared, all but one; and Orihah got himself anointed to be king over the folks.
Now he started reignin’, and the people began to thrive, gettin’ rich as croissants.
Then it came to pass that Jared passed away, and so did his brother.
And Orihah, he walked humbly before the Lord, rememberin’ all the great things the Lord did for his father, and taught his folks 'bout all the miracles the Lord blessed their fathers with.
