Orihah's runnin’ things right, y’all—while folks be fightin' over kingdoms like Shule and Cohor, them prophets speakin’ out ‘gainst all that sin and worshipin' false gods, and wouldn’t ya know, the people started turnin’ back.
So it’s told that Orihah handed down justice ‘round these parts his whole life long, which was a mighty long time.
He had him some sons 'n’ daughters, yes sir, thirty-one in total, includin' twenty-three boys.
And sure enough, in his later years, he had himself a boy named Kib. Then Kib took over the throne, and he ended up havin’ a son named Corihor.
Now, when Corihor hit thirty-two, he got this wild notion to rebel against his daddy, scootin' off to Nehor to set up shop; he got him some folks real good-lookin’ and pulled a whole mess of people along with him.
So, once he had himself a little army, he marched right on over to Moron, where the king was hangin’ out, and caught him up, fulfillin’ what that ol' brother of Jared said ‘bout folks endin’ up captives.
Now, Moron, where the king stayed, was right close to this place called Desolation that them Nephites talked ‘bout.
Pretty soon, Kib found himself all locked up while his own son Corihor was runnin' the show; Kib got real old by then, but still managed to have another boy named Shule while he was still stuck in that there captivity.
Well, Shule got mighty mad at his brother; he grew strong as a bull and could judge up a storm too.
So he hiked on over to that hill Ephraim, forged him some fine steel swords for all them folks who followed him, then he marched right back to Nehor to take on Corihor, and wouldn’t you believe it, he snatched the kingdom back for his pop, Kib.
Now, ‘cause of what Shule had done, his daddy handed the kingdom over to him, and thus he started his reign in place of his father.
From then on, he laid down justice that was right as rain; he spread his kingdom all over ‘cause there were folks poppin' up everywhere.
Shule also had himself a whole passel of sons ‘n’ daughters.
And Corihor, well, he felt bad ‘bout all the mess he made; so Shule gave him a lil’ power in his kingdom.
Corihor had a slew of kids, and one of ‘em was named Noah.
Now it just so happened that Noah turned against King Shule and his own pa, Corihor, and he managed to pull Cohor, his brother, and a whole bunch of folks right along with him.
Noah fought against Shule, and he ended up snaggin’ the land where they first settled and started callin’ himself king of that territory.
Then he went ‘round fightin’ Shule again, and caught him up and took him back to Moron.
As fate would have it, just as Noah was fixin' to off him, Shule’s boys snuck into Noah’s place at night, took him out, busted down the prison door, and got their daddy back up on his throne.
So then, Noah’s kid took over building that ol’ kingdom in his daddy’s place; but they could never edge out Shule the king again, and the people under ol’ Shule were doin’ real well and growin' strong.
Then there was a division in the land, creatin’ two kingdoms, one led by Shule, and the other by Cohor, Noah’s boy.
Cohor had his people goin’ up against Shule, but Shule showed ‘em who’s boss and took out Cohor.
Now, Cohor had himself a son named Nimrod, and Nimrod was savvy enough to pass the kingdom of Cohor over to Shule, gainin’ favor in his eyes; so Shule treated him real good and let him run things the way he wanted.
During Shule’s time, them prophets came rollin’ in among the folk, sent by the Lord, saying that the people’s wickedness and idol-worship was cursing the land, and if they didn’t straighten up, destruction was comin’.
Well, the folks didn’t take kindly to them prophets and started throwin’ shade. But King Shule? He served up some justice to all them mockers.
He enacted a law all over the land givin' the prophets the green light to go wherever they pleased, and thanks to that, folks started turning their lives around.
And since them people turned away from their sins and false gods, the Lord showed them mercy and they began to thrive again on the land. Ain’t no surprise that Shule had himself some more kids when he got old.
Now, in Shule’s days, there weren’t no more wars, and he kept in mind all the big stuff the Lord did for his people gettin’ ‘em across that big ol' water into the promised land; so he kept on dishin’ out justice the right way for all his days.
