Well, there’s a whole mess of fuss and fightin’ ‘bout the kingdom—Akish done went and swore himself into some secret club to take out the king—Now, these secret clubs, they ain’t nothin’ but the devil’s handiwork and they’ll bring ruin on a whole nation—Folks these days, they best keep their eyes peeled for those sneaky groups that aim to mess with the freedom of every land, nation, and place out there.
So, one day, ol’ Omer popped out some kids, and he took over the throne after that. Then Omer had him a boy named Jared; Jared went and had himself some sons and daughters too.
But then Jared got real rebellious, ‘n moved himself over to the land of Heth. He started butterin’ up folks with them slick words of his, ‘til he had half the kingdom in his pocket.
Once he had that half, he went to war against his own daddy, ‘n took his poor pa into captivity, makin’ him serve like some lowly prisoner.
Now, durin’ Omer’s reign, he was stuck in captivity for a good long while. And while locked up, he had him some more kids, ‘mongst ‘em bein’ Esrom and Coriantumr.
Now, them kids was mighty mad ‘bout what their brother Jared had done, so they rallied up a whole army and went after Jared. And would ya believe it, they snuck up on him at night to settle the score.
Well, after they took care of Jared’s army, they was fixin’ to take him out too; but Jared begged them not to, sayin’ he’d hand over the kingdom to his daddy. So, they let him keep on livin’.
Now Jared was feelin’ pretty low-down ‘bout losin’ the kingdom since he had his heart all set on it and the glory that comes with it.
Then his daughter, clever as a whip, saw her father wallowin’ in sorrow and thought up a scheme to get back that kingdom for him.
Now this gal was a real looker. So she chit-chatted with her daddy, askin’ why he was so sad. Didn’t he read that ol’ record the folks brought over the big ol’ sea? Ain’t there tales ‘bout them gettin’ kingdoms and glory through some sneaky plans?
So, she figured her daddy oughta call for Akish, the son of Kimnor; and she’s like, “Well, look at me, I’ll shimmy and shake for him, and then he’ll want me as his wife; so if’n he asks ya for my hand, just say: ‘I’ll give her to ya if y’all bring me the head of my daddy, the king.’”
Now, Omer was chums with Akish; so when Jared sent for Akish, his daughter danced up a storm for him, and he was all taken with her, wantin’ her for his wife. So he told Jared, “You best hand her over to me.”
And Jared was like, “Sure, I’ll give her to ya, but you gotta fetch me my daddy’s head first.”
Then Akish gathered up all his kinfolk at Jared’s place and asked them, “Y’all gonna swear to me that you’ll stick by me in whatever I ask?”
And they all said they swear by the God above and everything in it, that if anyone goes back on what Akish wanted, they’d lose their noggin; and if anyone blabbed what Akish told ‘em, their life was forfeit too.
So that’s how they struck a deal with Akish. He laid down the oaths just like the folks did back in the day who were all about power, and those oaths had roots goin’ all the way back to Cain, the first murderer.
And they kept those oaths rollin’ ‘round because of the devil’s power, messin’ with the folks to keep ‘em in the dark, helpin’ those who craved power to get it, and pushin’ them to kill, steal, lie, and all sorts of other wicked stuff.
It was Jared’s daughter who sparked the idea in him to dig up all them old stories; and Jared flipped that thought to Akish; so he shared it with his fam and buddies, sweet-talkin’ ‘em into doin’ whatever dirty deed he wanted.
They formed themselves a secret club, just like them old timers did; and lemme tell ya, it’s the most detestable and corrupt thing in God’s eyes.
‘Cause the Lord don’t work in secret clubs, and he sure don’t want folks spillin’ blood; He’s been sayin’ that from day one.
And now I, Moroni, ain’t gonna spill the beans on how they swore those oaths and made their clubs, ‘cause I know they’re all over the place, even with the Lamanites.
And they’ve been part of the downfall of the folks I’m talkin’ ‘bout now, along with the Nephi crowd.
Now any nation that puts its faith in these secret clubs lookin’ to grab power and riches, unleashed across the land, better watch out; ‘cause they’ll be headed for destruction; the Lord won’t take kindly to the blood of His saints bein’ shed, it’ll be cryin’ out from the ground for payback, and He won’t sit idle.
So listen up, Gentiles, it’s wise in God’s eyes to learn about this here stuff so you can turn from your sins and not let these killer clubs rise up against ya, built on greed and power—‘cause destruction’s comin’ for ya, and the sword of God’s divine justice is gonna land hard if you let this nonsense go on.
So, the Lord’s givin’ you the heads up; when you see all this trouble rollin’ in, you better wake up to the fact that you’re in deep trouble because of this secret combination; or wo betide you all—there’s blood on the ground cryin’ out for vengeance against what’s been done, and those who built this mess will have it comin’ too.
‘Cause whoever builds this thing is gunnin’ for the freedom of every land, nation, and town; and it’s gonna lead to the downfall of every last one of ‘em, ‘cause it’s hatched by the devil, the king of all liars; that same old liar who tricked our first ancestors; he’s the one who got men on the path to murder since the dawn of time; he’s the one who’s hardened hearts of men so they’ve killed the prophets, stoned ‘em, and kicked ‘em to the curb since the very beginning.
So here I am, Moroni, tasked with spillin’ all this so evil can be wiped out, and the day comes when Satan can’t drag folks down no more, that they’ll be led to do good and drink from the well of righteousness and be saved.
