Well, it was one o' them years when the fightin' broke out again 'twixt them Nephites and them Lamanites. Now, even though I was still a pup, I was a big fella, and the folks chose me to lead 'em, bein’ the head honcho of their armies.
So, in my sweet sixteen, I saddled up and took charge of a Nephite army, headin' straight for them Lamanites, which meant that a whole bunch—like three hundred and twenty-six years—had already ticked on by.
Then, lo and behold, in the three hundred and twenty-seventh year, the Lamanites came at us with a power that was mighty hefty, scarin' my troops so bad they didn't wanna strike back, startin' to skedaddle back up north.
We made our way to the city o' Angola, took it over, and got ready to stand our ground against them Lamanites. We fortified that city real good, but still, them Lamanites rolled in and pushed us on outta there.
And they kicked us right outta the land o' David, if ya can believe it.
So, we kept marchin' and found ourselves in the land of Joshua, which was sittin’ pretty close to the coast.
We rounded up our folks as quick as we could, tryin' to get 'em all together, one big happy family.
But, shoot, the place was crawlin' with thieves and Lamanites galore, and even with all that destruction hangin' over us, my people just kept on doin' their wrongs; there was blood and guts spillin’ everywhere, from the Nephites and the Lamanites alike, like a whole mess of chaos all over the land.
Now, them Lamanites had themselves a king named Aaron, and he rolled up against us with forty-four thousand men. Meanwhile, I held my ground with forty-two thousand of my own, and wouldn’t ya know it, I sent him packin’ with my army chasin' him down. And just like that, three hundred and thirty years had passed.
Next thing ya know, the Nephites started to feel a bit guilty 'bout all their wrongdoings, hollerin' out just like Samuel the prophet had predicted; ‘cause I tell ya, no one could keep their stuff with all them thieves, robbers, and murderers lurkin' 'round, and don’t forget the magic and witchery floatin' through the air.
So, there was a whole lotta mournin’ and lamentin’ all over the place, especially among the Nephites.
When I, Mormon, saw all that cryin' and sorrowin' they had before the Lord, I couldn’t help but feel a bit of joy bubble up in me, knowin' how merciful and patient the Lord is, thinkin’ maybe they'd straighten up and fly right again.
But, bless my soul, my joy was in vain ‘cause their sad faces weren’t turnin’ into repentance, seein’ as they was just wallowing in shame like the damned, 'cause the Lord won’t let 'em have their cake and eat it too when they're livin' in sin.
And they didn’t come to Jesus with a broken spirit, nah, they was cussin’ God and wishin’ for the sweet release of death. Still, they was fightin' tooth and nail to stick around.
Then my heart sunk again when I noticed the day of grace had slipped right past 'em, both in this life and the next; I saw thousands of 'em cut down, rebellin’ against their God, just layin' there like a pile of dung spread over the land. And wouldn't ya know it, three hundred and forty-four years had gone by.
Then in the three hundred and forty-fifth year, the Nephites started skedaddlin’ away from the Lamanites, and they didn’t stop until they found themselves in the land of Jashon, tryin’ to make a run for it.
Now, the city of Jashon was close to where Ammaron had stashed the records so they wouldn’t get wrecked. I did like Ammaron said and snagged those plates of Nephi, keepin' a record of what all went down.
On those plates, I wrote a full account of all the wickedness and wrongdoings, but I decided to hold off on spillin’ every last detail of their sins, ‘cause, darlin’, I’ve seen a straight-up parade of wickedness since I was old enough to notice folks' behavior.
And oh, woe is me for all their bad ways, 'cause my heart's been carryin' that sorrow all my dawnin’ days; still, I reckon I’ll be lifted up in the end.
Well, it turned out that this year, the Nephites were bein' hunted and hounded real bad. We got chased all the way north to a place they called Shem.
We fortified that city o' Shem and tried to gather our folks as best we could, hopin’ to save 'em from bein' wiped out.
Then, in the three hundred and forty-sixth year, we found ourselves under attack again.
I stood up and spoke to my people real fervently, tellin’ 'em they needed to get their grit on and fight for their wives, children, houses, and homes.
And my words kinda lit a fire under 'em, enough so they didn’t turn tail and run but stood their ground against them Lamanites.
We found ourselves facin' down an army of thirty thousand against fifty thousand of 'em. And wouldn't ya know it, we stood firm enough that they ended up turnin’ tail and runnin’.
When they skedaddled, we chased 'em down, meetin' 'em again and beatin' 'em good; still, the Lord’s strength wasn’t with us that day; we was left to fend for ourselves, and let me tell ya, we got weak just like our brethren.
My heart ached for the plight of my people, sufferin' from their wickedness and all. But we charged out against them Lamanites and those robbers of Gadianton until we took back our rightful lands.
Three hundred and forty-nine years had slipped on by. Then in the three hundred and fiftieth year, we made ourselves a treaty with the Lamanites and them Gadianton robbers, and we sorted out the lands of our inheritance.
Those Lamanites gave us the land up north, all the way to the narrow pass leadin' into the land down south, and we, in turn, gave 'em all the land down south.
