Well, I reckon I’m finishing up my story ‘bout how my folks, the Nephites, met their end. So we marched right out in front of them Lamanites.
Now me, Mormon, I penned a letter to the king of the Lamanites, askin’ him kindly if he’d let our folks gather ‘round that hill out in Cumorah so we could have ourselves a good fight.
Lo and behold, that king of the Lamanites granted me what I was askin’ for.
We packed up and headed to the land of Cumorah, settin’ up our tents all ‘round that hill. It was a place with plenty of water, rivers, and springs, and we thought we’d have the upper hand against them Lamanites.
Now, after three hundred eighty-four years had passed, we rounded up all the rest of our folks to the land of Cumorah.
Well, when we finally got everybody together at Cumorah, I started feelin’ my age settlin’ in. Knowin’ this was gonna be the last fight for my people, I remembered the Lord told me to protect them sacred records our daddies passed down to us from fallin’ into Lamanite hands, 'cause they’d just tear ‘em up. So I made this record from the plates of Nephi, and I hid up all the records entrusted to me by the Lord in that hill, ‘cept for a few plates I handed down to my boy Moroni.
Then my people, along with their wives and little ones, could see them Lamanite armies comin’ toward ‘em, filled with that awful dread of death that grips the wicked tight in their chests.
And sure ‘nuff, they came at us swingin’, and every single one of us was shook to our core by how many of ‘em there were.
So they brought the fight to my people with swords, bows, arrows, axes, and every darn weapon they could think of.
Well, my men got cut down right there, even my ten thousand who were standin’ with me, and I fell hurt right in the middle of it all; they passed me by without finishin’ me off.
When they had gone through and cut down all my folks, ‘cept for twenty-four of us—my son Moroni bein' one of 'em—we were still standin’ after all the carnage, and we looked out from the top of hill Cumorah the next day and saw my ten thousand folks who had been taken down, with me out front.
We also spotted my ten thousand folks being led by my boy Moroni.
And, land sakes, Gidgiddonah's ten thousand had bit the dust, and he too fell right there in the fray.
Then Lamah’s ten thousand had met their end, and Gilgal’s ten thousand bit it too; Limhah, Jeneum, and all them others—Cumenihah, Moronihah, Antionum, Shiblom, Shem, and Josh—each had their own ten thousand fallin’ too.
And wouldn't you know it, there were ten more who fell by the sword, with their ten thousand each; that made all my folks gone, ‘cept for them twenty-four with me, plus a few who skedaddled off to the south and a couple who switched sides to the Lamanites. Their flesh, bones, and blood lay all over the ground, left by those who took ‘em down to decompose and return to good ol’ Mother Earth.
My heart was just crushed with sorrow ‘cause of all my people that had been slain, and I cried out:
Oh, you sweet souls, how in the world could you’ve strayed from the Lord’s ways? Oh, my sweet souls, how could you’ve turned your back on Jesus who stood there with open arms just waitin’ for ya!
Listen here, if y’all hadn’t gone and done all that, you wouldn’t have fallen. But look at ya now, you’ve fallen, and I grieve your loss.
Oh, y’all beautiful sons and daughters, mothers and fathers, husbands and wives, how in tarnation could you’ve fallen like this!
But there ya go, you’re gone, and my sad heart can’t bring you back.
Soon enough, the time’s gonna come when your mortal selves gotta put on immortality, and these bodies that are just laying around in decay gonna become incorruptible; and then you’ll stand before Christ’s judgment seat, to be judged by your actions—if you did good, then your hearts will be blessed alongside your forebears.
Oh, if only you had turned back ‘fore this awful destruction hit ya. But now, you’re gone, and the Heavenly Father, the Eternal Father, knows where you stand, and He’s gonna deal with ya based on His fairness and mercy.
