Well now, listen up, I'm fixin’ to have a little chat with y’all who’re still kickin’ around, hopin’ God’ll let me share my thoughts with ya, so y’all can know what your kinfolk been through; yep, I’m talkin’ to you, the folks left from the house of Israel; and here’s what I gotta say:
Y'all need to know ya part of the house of Israel.
Y’all gotta understand that ya need to turn your ways, or y’all ain’t gonna be saved.
Ya best lay down yer guns and quit lovin’ the spillin’ of blood, and don’t go pickin’ 'em up again unless God gives ya the nod.
Y’all gotta come to know your ancestors, turn away from all your wrongdoings, and put your faith in Jesus Christ, ‘cause He’s the Son of God, and them Jews had Him killed, but by the Father’s might, He rose up again, and He beat death like a champion; in Him, the bite of death is gone.
And He’s gonna bring back the dead, ‘cause folks gotta stand before Him when it’s time for judgment.
He’s takin’ care of the redemption of the world, and on that big ol’ judgment day, if you’re found blameless in His eyes, you get to hang out with God in His kingdom, singin’ praises that never quit, to the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost, who are all one God, livin’ large in pure joy that never ends.
So, y’all need to repent, get baptized in Jesus’ name, and grab hold of that there gospel of Christ they got laid out for ya, it ain't just in this here record but also in the one that’ll come to the Gentiles from the Jews, which will come from the Gentiles back to you.
Now listen, this here’s written so ya might believe that; and if you believe that, then ya gonna believe this too; and if you believe this, you’re gonna know all ‘bout your ancestors and all the wondrous works God did among ‘em.
And you’ll also know that y’all are a leftover bunch from Jacob’s line; so, mebbe you’re countin’ among those folks in the first promise; and if you believe in Christ and get baptized, first in water, then with fire and the Holy Ghost, followin’ what our Savior showed us, then it's gonna be all good for ya when that judgment day rolls around. Amen.
