Well now, let me y'all know, I'm fixin' to talk 'bout them folks who ain't puttin' their faith in Christ.
Well, now, y’all reckon you'll believe when the Good Lord shows up? Just picture it—when the Lord rolls in, and the whole world's gonna roll up like a scroll, and the heat’s gonna melt everythin’ good. Yeah, that big ol' day when you find yourself standin’ right there in front of the Lamb of God—thinkin’, then you'll say there ain't no God?
Naw, you reckon you’ll still keep denyin’ Christ? Or can you even take a good look at the Lamb of God? Do y’all really think you could just hang out with Him while feelin’ guilty as a dog? You really think you’d find joy bein’ with that holy Being when your spirit’s all twisted ‘bout how you done broke His laws?
Listen, I’m tellin’ ya, you'd be a heap more miserable bein’ with a holy and just God, feelin' all filthy-like than you would be with the damned souls down in hell.
‘Cause, lemme tell ya, when you’re laid bare before God, and seein’ His glory and the holiness of Jesus Christ, that’s gonna light a fire in ya that can’t be put out.
So, all you who ain't believe—turn yourselves around and hit your knees to the Lord; holler real loud to the Father in Jesus’ name, hopin' you might be found all clean and pure, washed up by the blood of the Lamb come that final day.
And once again, I’m talkin’ to y’all who just can’t wrap your heads ‘round God’s revelations, sayin’ they ain't no more revelations, prophecies, gifts, or even healings, or speakin’ in tongues, and all that interpretin’ stuff.
Listen up now, I say if you deny these here things, you ain't got a clue ‘bout the gospel of Christ; no sir, you ain't even read them scriptures, and if you have, you just can’t make sense of it.
Ain’t we readin’ that God’s the same yesterday, today, and forever, and there ain't no change or shadow ’round Him?
Now, if y’all gone and imagined a god who changes like the weather, then you’re picture-in’ yourself a god who ain't no miracle worker at all.
But hold on now, I’m gonna show ya a God of miracles, the same one who’s Abraham's God, Isaac's God, and Jacob's God; the same one what made the heavens and the earth and all that's in 'em.
Right there, He created Adam, and through Adam, we got the fall of man. And ‘cause of that fall came Jesus Christ, the Father and the Son; and through Jesus, we got our redemption.
And because of this redemption, what came through Jesus, folks can come back to the presence of the Lord; yep, that’s how every last one of us gets redeemed, ‘cause when Christ died, He brought on the resurrection, which lifts us outta that endless sleep, and come judgment day, all y’all gonna wake up by the power of God when that trumpet sounds; and you’ll show up, big and small, standin’ before His bar, redeemed and freed from that there eternal death span, which is really just a temporary death.
And then comes the judgment from the Holy One; and that’s when the filthy folks will be filthy still, and the righteous will be just fine being righteous; the happy will be happy still, and the unhappy will stay unhappy.
And now, all y’all who imagined ya a god that can’t do miracles, I’m itchin’ to know, have all them things I been blabbin' about come to pass? Is the end here yet? Naw, I’m telling ya, nope; God ain't stopped bein’ a God of miracles.
Looky here, ain't the stuff God’s done just downright marvelous to us? Shoot, who can really grasp the wondrous works of the Lord?
Who’s gonna say it wasn’t a miracle when by His word the heavens and earth came to be, and by that same power man was formed from the dust? And by that same word, miracles got done?
And who’s out there gonna say Jesus Christ didn’t perform all kinds of mighty miracles? The apostles did a whole pile of them too.
And if they was doin' miracles back then, why do ya reckon God would stop being that God of miracles but still be a God that don’t change? Listen here, I tell ya, He don’t change; if He did, He wouldn’t be God, and He’s not gonna stop bein’ a God of miracles.
Now the reason He don’t do miracles amongst folks is 'cause they be fallin’ away into unbelief, and wanderin’ off the right path, not knowin’ the God they oughta trust.
Well, I’m sayin’ to ya, whoever believes in Christ, doubtin’ nuthin’, what’sver ya ask the Father in Christ’s name, it’s gonna be granted to ya; and that promise is for everyone, even to folks at the ends of the earth.
For, looky here, Jesus Christ, the Son of God, told His disciples who’d hang around, and all His other followers, while folks were listenin’: Y’all go out into all the world and preach that gospel to every critter;
And whoever believes and gets baptized is gonna be saved, but whoever don’t believe, they’ll be damned;
And them signs are gonna follow them that believe—My name, they'll cast out devils; they gonna speak in new tongues; they’ll pick up serpents; and if they drink somethin' deadly, it won’t hurt ‘em; they’ll lay hands on the sick and they’ll get better;
And who soever believes in My name, doubtin’ nuthin’, I’m gonna back up all my words straight to the ends of the earth.
Now, who can stand against the works of the Lord? Who can deny what He’s said? Who’s gonna rise up against the mighty power of the Lord? Who’ll look down on the Lord's work? Who’ll look down on the kids of Christ? Listen, all ye who look down on the works of God, you're gonna wonder and meet your end.
So don’t go despisin’ and wonderin’, but listen close to the Lord’s words, and ask the Father in Jesus' name for what you need. Don’t doubt, just believe, and start alignin’ your heart with the good ol’ days, and come to the Lord with all ya got, workin’ out your own salvation with a bit of fear and shakin’ before Him.
Be smart while you’re on probation; shake off all the junk; don't ask just to fulfill your cravings, but ask with a steadiness, that you won’t fall for no temptations, but serve the true and livin' God.
Make sure you ain't gettin’ baptized in a sorry state; make sure you ain’t takin’ the sacrament of Christ unworthily; but do all things worthily, and do it in the name of Jesus Christ, the Son of the livin' God; if you do this, and hang tight till the end, you ain't gonna be cast out.
I’m talkin’ to ya like I’m preachin' from the grave; ‘cause I know you’ll have my words.
Don’t y’all condemn me ‘cause I ain’t perfect, neither my daddy or the ones who wrote before him; just give thanks to God for showin’ you our flaws, so you can learn to be smarter than we ever were.
And right now, we’ve put this here record down based on what we know, in the language we call reformed Egyptian, handed down and kinda twisted by us, just talkin’ like we do.
If our plates had been big enough, we’d’uv written in Hebrew; but we changed that around too; and if we coulda gone with Hebrew, well, you’d’ve found no faults in our record.
But the Lord knows what we wrote, and nobody else knows our lingo; and ‘cause none other folks know our language, He’s made a way for it to be understood.
And these words are penned that we might clean our hands of the blood of our brethren, who’ve wandered off in unbelief.
And look here, what we’ve wished for our brethren, their comeback to the knowledge of Christ, is based on the prayers of all the holy folks who’ve lived in the land.
And I pray the Lord Jesus Christ gets their prayers answered ‘cording to their faith; and may God the Father remember that deal He made with Israel; and may He bless ‘em forever, ‘cause of faith in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
