Well now, it all kicked off when I, Omni, got a strong nudge from my old man, Jarom, to scratch down some words on these here plates, to keep track of our kinfolk—
So, in my days, just want y’all to know, I swung my sword plenty to keep my folks, the Nephites, from fallin' into the clutches of the Lamanites. But I reckon I ain't no saint myself, and I ain't been stickin' to the good Lord’s rules like I probably shoulda.
Now, after two hundred seventy-six years had rolled on by, we had ourselves a fair bit of calm times; but we also saw many a bloody battle. And all told, after two hundred eighty-two years had passed, I held onto these plates just like my fathers instructed me, and I handed 'em off to my young’un, Amaron. And thus I wrap things up.
Now I, Amaron, got a few things to jot down in the book of my old man.
Well, lo and behold, three hundred twenty years flew by, and the wicked lot of the Nephites met their end.
The Lord sure wouldn’t let it be, after he led ‘em out of Jerusalem and kept ‘em safe from their foes—He meant what he said to our ancestors, saying that if you don’t stick to my laws, ain’t no way you’ll thrive in the land.
So, the Lord dished out some serious judgment; yet, he saved the upright folks so they wouldn’t be wiped out, but lifted 'em right outta their enemy's hold.
Then it came about that I passed the plates on over to my brother Chemish.
Now I, Chemish, ain't got much to write, but I’m scribblin' in the same book as my brother; for you see, I caught the last bit he wrote, done with his own hand, on the day he handed 'em to me. And this is how we keep track of things, 'cause that's how our fathers wanted it. And I’ll call it good.
Look here, I’m Abinadom, son of Chemish. Well, during my time, I saw a heap of battles and quarrels between my folks, the Nephites, and the Lamanites; and I, using my own sword, sent many a Lamanite to meet their maker while defendin' my kinfolk.
And I reckon the record of our people’s carved into plates handled by the kings, generation to generation; and as far as I know, ain't no new revelations, just what’s been penned down. So, what’s needed is written. That’s all I got to say.
I say, I'm Amaleki, the son of Abinadom. Now I’ll spin you a yarn about Mosiah, who got crowned king over Zarahemla; see, he was warned by the Lord to skedaddle outta the land of Nephi, and all who'd listen to the Lord were supposed to pack up and follow him into the wild—
And sure enough, he did just as the Lord told him. They all headed out into the wilderness, all who’d hearken to the Lord’s words; and they were guided by preachin' and prophesyin' a plenty. And they kept gettin’ reminded by the good word of God; led by the strength of his mighty arm, through the wild until they reached what’s called the land of Zarahemla.
And they stumbled upon a folk known as the people of Zarahemla. Now, there was a heap of hootin' and hollerin' from the folks in Zarahemla; and good ol’ Zarahemla was downright joyful, 'cause the Lord had sent folks along with Mosiah, lugging the brass plates with the Jew’s record.
So, it came to pass that Mosiah found out the people of Zarahemla had themselves come out from Jerusalem way back when Zedekiah, the king of Judah, got hauled off to Babylon.
And they wandered through the wilderness, brought by the Lord's hand across the vast waters, landing right where Mosiah discovered 'em; and they had called that place home ever since.
By the time Mosiah laid his eyes on 'em, they’d multiplied like rabbits. Yet, they’d been through many a fight and bitter squabble, falling to the sword now and again; their talk had gotten all jumbled up; and they didn’t bring any records with them; and they denied their Creator. Mosiah, nor his kin, could make heads or tails of their jabberin’.
But Mosiah made sure they learned to speak his language. After they got taught up in Mosiah’s tongue, Zarahemla laid out a genealogy of his folks from his memory; and while it's written, it don't sit on these plates.
Then it came about that the folks of Zarahemla and the Mosiah crowd joined forces, and they made Mosiah their king.
And not long after, a big ol' stone showed up for him, covered in engravings; and he figured out what them engravings said by God’s power and gifts.
They shared a tale of one Coriantumr and the folks he lost. Coriantumr was found by the Zarahemla folk; and he stayed with them for nine moons.
It also spoke a few words about his ancestors. His first folks came from a tower when the Lord mixed up the languages of the people, and the Lord’s judgment came down on ‘em, as it should, leaving their remains scattered 'round the land up north.
Well now, I, Amaleki, was born during Mosiah's reign; and I seen his day come and go; and his boy Benjamin took the crown after him.
And during king Benjamin's days, I saw some serious scrap and plenty of blood spilled between the Nephites and Lamanites. But the Nephites got the upper hand, so much so that king Benjamin ran ‘em right outta Zarahemla.
It came about that I started feelin' my years weighin' down on me; and since I ain't got any young’uns, and knowin' king Benjamin’s a righteous fella before the Lord, I reckon it's time to hand off these plates to him, urgining folks to head on over to God, the Holy One of Israel, and to have faith in prophecies, revelations, and angels min’ring, and to trust in speaking in tongues, and in understanding languages, and all things that are good; 'cause there ain't nothin' good that don't come from the Lord, and all that bad comes from the devil himself.
And now, my dear brethren, I wish for you to come to Christ, the Holy One of Israel, and tap into his salvation and redeeming power. Y’all come to him, and offer up your very souls as a gift to him, and keep on fasting and praying, and endure right to the end; and as surely as the Lord lives, you’ll find salvation.
Now, I got a little tale 'bout some folks who hit the trail to head back to the land of Nephi; a fair number were eager to lay claim to their inherited land.
So they set off into the wild. The leader was a strong and willful man, stirrin' up trouble amongst ‘em; and most were cut down in the wilderness, ‘cept for fifty, who made it back to Zarahemla.
They also rounded up a good handful more and took off again into the wilderness.
And I, Amaleki, had a brother who went along with 'em, and I ain't heard a peep about 'em since. Now I'm fixin' to lay me down in my grave, and these plates are full to the brim. And that's the end of my sayin’.
