We collected all kinds of seeds, including various grains and fruits.
While my father stayed in the wilderness, he talked to us, saying: I had a dream, or in other words, I saw a vision.
I have reason to be joyful in the Lord because of Nephi and Sam; I believe that they and many of their descendants will be saved.
But I am very worried about Laman and Lemuel; I think I saw a dark and gloomy wilderness in my dream.
Then I saw a man dressed in a white robe, who came and stood before me.
He spoke to me and told me to follow him.
As I followed him, I realized I was in a dark and desolate place.
After traveling for many hours in darkness, I began to pray to the Lord for mercy because of his great kindness.
Once I prayed to the Lord, I saw a large, open field.
In that field, I saw a tree with fruit that looked very appealing and made one feel happy.
I approached the tree and ate the fruit, which I found to be incredibly sweet, better than anything I had ever tasted. Its fruit was so white, it surpassed any whiteness I'd ever seen.
As I ate the fruit, it filled me with immense joy; I wanted my family to try it too since I knew it was the best fruit.
Looking around to find my family, I saw a river that ran alongside the tree where I was eating.
I looked upstream and noticed your mother Sariah, Sam, and Nephi standing there, seemingly unsure of where to go.
I called to them loudly, inviting them to come and eat the fruit, which was more desirable than any other.
They came to me and also ate the fruit.
I wished for Laman and Lemuel to come and eat the fruit too, so I looked up the river again to see if I could find them.
I saw them, but they refused to come and partake of the fruit.
I also noticed a rod of iron, which stretched along the riverbank and led to the tree where I stood.
There was also a narrow and straight path next to the rod of iron, leading to the tree, as well as towards the head of the fountain, which opened into a large and spacious field, almost like a world.
I saw countless crowds of people trying to move forward to reach the path that led to the tree where I was standing.
They began to walk along the path towards the tree.
Then a thick mist of darkness arose, causing those who started on the path to lose their way and wander off, getting lost.
I noticed others who were pushing forward; they reached for the end of the rod of iron and moved through the mist, holding on tightly until they reached the tree and ate the fruit.
After eating the fruit, they looked around, appearing ashamed.
I also looked around and saw a large, impressive building on the other side of the river, standing high above the ground.
It was filled with people of all ages and genders, dressed very finely, mocking and pointing at those who were eating the fruit.
After tasting the fruit, some felt ashamed because of the mockery, and they strayed into forbidden paths and got lost.
Now, I, Nephi, won't tell all my father's words.
To be brief, he saw other crowds coming forward, holding on to the end of the rod of iron and making their way to the tree, where they fell down and ate the fruit.
He also saw other groups trying to find their way to that grand building.
Many ended up drowning in the depths of the fountain, and others got lost wandering on strange roads.
A large number entered that strange building. After they went inside, they pointed fingers of scorn at me and those who were eating the fruit, but we didn't pay attention to them.
My father's words are: As many people listened to them, they fell away.
Laman and Lemuel didn’t partake of the fruit, my father said.
After sharing all the details of his dream or vision, which were many, he expressed deep concern for Laman and Lemuel; he worried they might be cast off from the Lord's presence.
With great tenderness, he urged them to listen to his words, hoping the Lord would show them mercy and not abandon them; yes, my father preached to them.
After preaching and prophesying many things, he urged them to keep the Lord's commandments and then stopped speaking to them.
