Well now, listen here, I, Jarom, reckon I oughta jot down a few words 'cause my pa, Enos, told me to keep track of our family tree.
These plates ain't very big, and I’m scribblin' this stuff lookin' out for our folks, the Lamanites, so I gotta keep it short; but I ain't gonna write much about my prophecies or revelations. What else is there for me to say that my forebears ain't already said? They laid out the whole plan of salvation, I tell ya; and that’s good enough for me.
Now pay attention, it’s mighty important to do a heap of good among these folks, 'cause their hearts are harder than a rock, their ears ain't listenin’, their minds are blind as bats, and they sure as shootin’ have stiff necks; still, God’s a right merciful fella and hasn’t wrung them off the face of the earth just yet.
There’s plenty of folks among us who have had a fair share of revelations ‘cause not everyone’s hardheaded. All them who ain’t so hard and got faith got a connection with the Holy Spirit, which reveals stuff to folks based on their faith.
So here we are, two hundred years have passed, and the Nephites have grown strong as an ox in the land. They made sure to keep the law of Moses and kept the Sabbath day holy for the Good Lord. They didn’t defile it; nor did they curse. The laws of the land were tighter than a drum.
They scattered wide, as did the Lamanites, who outnumbered us Nephites by a long shot; they were keen on murderin’ and didn’t shy away from slurpin’ up animal blood.
Time and again, them rascals came at us Nephites, tryin’ to pick a fight. But our kings and leaders were solid fellas in their faith, preachin’ the ways of the Lord; thus, we stood firm against the Lamanites, sent 'em packin’, and started buildin’ up our towns and all the places we called home.
We spread out like wildflowers, got rich in gold, silver, shiny trinkets, fine woodwork, big ol’ buildings, and all sorts of machines, and we made tools to till the fields, and weapons for fightin’—yep, we had sharp arrows, quivers, darts, javelins, you name it, all ready for a showdown.
So, bein’ ready to face off against the Lamanites, they didn’t get the upper hand on us. The word of the Lord rang true, like he told our ancestors, sayin’: As long as ya keep my commandments, you’re gonna thrive in the land.
Then it came to pass that the Lord's prophets warned the Nephites, on account of God, tellin' 'em if they didn't stick to the commandments but went astray, they'd be wiped off the face of the earth.
So the prophets, priests, and teachers worked night and day, bein’ patient as a saint, urg­ing the folks to stay on the straight and narrow; they taught the law of Moses and why it was given, coaxin’ 'em to look forward to the Messiah, believing he was already comin’. That’s how they went about teachin'.
They managed to keep ‘em from bein’ lost, pricking their hearts with words, n' continuin' to stir ‘em up towards repentin'.
Then two hundred and thirty-eight years rolled on, filled with wars, squabbles, and dissensions, for most of that time.
As for me, Jarom, I ain’t writin' more ‘cause these plates are too darn small. But listen here, brethren, you can head on over to Nephi’s other plates; ‘cause around there, the tales of our battles are etched, just like the kings had 'em written down.
And I’m handin’ these plates over to my boy Omni, so they can be kept true to the commandments of my forebears.
