Well now, let me tell ya 'bout a time when folks in the land of Zarahemla weren’t bickerin’ no more, and King Benjamin was sittin’ pretty with peace for the rest of his days.
As fate would have it, he ended up with three strappin’ sons; named ‘em Mosiah, Helorum, and Helaman. He made sure they learned all the lingo from their kin, so they’d be smart as whips and able to grasp the prophecies their forebears spoke, handed down straight from the Good Lord.
He also took the time to teach ‘em ‘bout them records carved on the brass plates, sayin’: “Boys, remember this well: if it weren’t for these here plates, keepin’ track of our learnin' and God’s rules, we’d be wanderin’ in the dark, not knowin’ nuthin’ about the Lord’s mysteries even now.”
Cause, reckon it wouldn’t have been feasible for our old man Lehi to recall all them teachings to pass along if it weren’t fer them plates; he was schooled in the Egyptian tongue so he could read ‘em and share with his kids, who’d then pass it down the line, fulfillin’ God’s commandments, right up to today.
I tell ya, my boys, if it weren’t for all these mighty things God’s preserved for us, keepin’ His mysteries and commands in front of our eyes, we’d a dwindled into unbelievin’ just like our Lamanite cousins, who’ve no idea ‘bout these matters and don’t believe ‘em even when they’re told, thanks to their folks’ misguided traditions.
Now listen here, sons, remember these words are as true as the sun risin’ in the east, same goes for these records. And be aware of the plates of Nephi—the words and deeds of our folks from the time they left Jerusalem up ‘til now—that’s the gospel truth, and we can be sure of it since we got ‘em right in front of us.
And now, my boys, don’t you forget to pore over ‘em with all your might, for there’s gold to be found, and keepin’ God’s commandments will see you flourish in this land, just as the Lord promised our fathers.
King Benjamin had plenty more wisdom to share with his boys, but it ain’t all inked in this here book.
After he finished teachin’ his young’uns, old King Benjamin felt the weight of age and knew he’d soon be checkin’ out for good; so he thought it best to hand over the reins of the kingdom to one of his sons.
So, he called Mosiah in front of him, and these are the words that came outta his mouth: “Son, I want you to spread the word across this land among all the folks here in Zarahemla and our kinfolk the Mosiah, so they can all gather ‘round; ‘cause come tomorrow, I’ll tell this crowd myself that you’ve been chosen as king and leader over these folks, whom the Lord Almighty has blessed us with.”
“I’m also gonna give these folks a name, so they’ll stand out from all the other crowds the Lord brought outta Jerusalem; and it’s ‘cause they’ve worked hard keepin' God’s commandments.”
And I’m givin’ ‘em a name that’ll never get wiped out, ‘cept if they go astray.
Indeed, I say to you, if this blessed group of the Lord turns wicked and stray from the path, the Lord will let ‘em go, and they'll be weak like their brethren; and He ain’t gonna keep protectin’ ‘em with His unmatched power like He done for our folks till now.
For if the Good Lord hadn’t reached out to save our forebears, they’d have been in the hands of the Lamanites, sufferin’ from their fury.
And so it came to pass, after King Benjamin finished spillin’ this wisdom to his son, he entrusted him with all the affairs of the kingdom.
Plus, he also passed to him the records on the brass plates, those plates of Nephi; and that sword of Laban, and the ball or compass that led our folks through the wilderness, crafted by the Lord’s hand so everyone could follow according to how well they listened and worked hard.
So those who didn’t stay true didn’t make any headway, but got pushed back instead, earnin’ God’s displeasure, which brought on famine and tough times to remind ‘em of their duties.
And yessiree, Mosiah did as his pa said, shoutin' out to all the folks in Zarahemla to gather up and head to the temple to hear the words his father had to share with ‘em.
