Well now, let me spin ya a yarn:
In them days, we set our sights on buildin' up the kingdom again and started claimin' the land, all peaceful-like. So I got the sharpest tools o’ the trade made up, so we'd be well-armed when them Lamanites decided to come rustlin' up trouble again.
I put watchmen all 'round the territory, so them Lamanites wouldn’t sneak up on us unsuspectin' and cause us harm; I kept my folks and our critters safe from them varmints.
Sure enough, we took our rightful place on the land of our forebears for a good twenty-two years, livin' high and mighty.
I set my men to workin' the earth, plowin' and plantin' all sorts of crops and fruits of every flavor.
And the womenfolk, bless 'em, spun and toiled away, makin’ fine linens and cloths so we could cover our naked hides, and wouldn’t ya know it, we thrived in that land — enjoyin' peace for another twenty-two years.
Then came the day King Laman kicked the bucket, and his boy stepped up to take the reins. That fella stirred his folks up into a ruckus against us; soon enough they were rustlin' up plans for battle, intent on comin' after my people.
But I sent out my scouts all over Shemlon to suss out their plans and keep tabs on 'em, so they couldn’t catch us with our boots off.
Lo and behold, they rode up from the north side of Shilom, a right big crowd armed to the teeth—bow’n arrows, swords, big ol' cimeters, stones, and slings. And you bet, their heads were shaved clean, sportin' nothin’ but leather belts tied ‘round their waists.
I had the women and young'uns hightail it into the wild, and I called all able-bodied men, both old-timers and fresh-faced lads, to rally together against the Lamanites; we formed up in ranks, each man standin' tall according to his age.
So off we went, ready to square off against those Lamanites, and I, despite my age, took my place in the fight. We headed into the fray, leanin’ on the strength of the Lord.
Now, them Lamanites were as clueless as a calf in a hailstorm when it came to the Lord's might, dependin' solely on their own power. But I’ll tell ya, they were a brawny bunch, for sure.
They were a wild, fierce bunch, quick to spill blood and clingin' to old tales handed down from their kin—thinkin’ they’d been kicked outta Jerusalem ‘cause of their folks' sins, and felt wronged by their own brethren in the wilderness, not to mention bein’ wronged on their sea journey.
And again, they cried foul when they settled in the land they first came to after crossin' the sea, all ‘cause Nephi kept his nose clean and followed the Almighty’s ways—he came out on top ‘cause the Lord heard his prayers and led ‘em on through the wilderness.
His brothers were fit to be tied ‘cause they couldn’t see how the Lord was workin’ things; they got riled up with him while driftin’ on the waters, hardenin’ their hearts against the Lord.
And sure enough, they were all in a tizzy when they made it to the promised land, claimin’ Nephi was usin’ his smarts to take charge away from ‘em, and they plotted to take him out.
Then they huffed and puffed again ‘cause he took off into the wilderness as the Lord told him, swipin' the records on brass plates—they accused him of bein' a thief.
And so it went, they taught their young'uns to bear a grudge against the Nephites, to hate ‘em, murder ‘em, rob ‘em blind, and do everything they could to wipe 'em out; that’s how they came to carry a lifelong hatred towards Nephi's kin.
It was for this very reason that King Laman, with his slick tricks and smooth talk, had duped me into leadin’ my people up here, just for them to be taken down; yessir, we’ve been sufferin' for many a year in this neck of the woods.
And now I, Zeniff, havin’ spilled everything to my people about them Lamanites, fired ‘em up to fight with all their might, trustin' in the Lord; so we squared off with ‘em, face to face.
We sent ‘em packin’ from our land again; we laid waste to ‘em so bad, we lost count of how many we brought down.
Next thing ya know, we were back in our own territory, and my folks started tendin' their flocks, workin' the soil once more.
And seein' as how I’m gettin' on in years, I handed the reins of the kingdom over to one of my sons; so I reckon it's time for me to draw my story to a close. May the Lord keep a good hand on my folks. Amen.
