Well now, it came to pass that Zeniff passed the reins of the kingdom to Noah, one of his young'uns; so Noah took the saddle in his old man's place, but he didn’t walk the straight and narrow like his father did.
‘Cause ya see, he didn’t follow the Good Lord’s commandments, but instead chased after his own desires. Had himself a whole mess of wives and concubines. He led his folks right into sin and all kinds of awful mischief that got the Lord all riled up. Yep, they were off commitin' whoredoms and all sorts of wickedness.
And he slapped a tax on ‘em, takin’ one-fifth of everything they had—one-fifth of their gold, silver, ziff, copper, brass, iron, and their fat little critters, plus a fifth of all their grain.
And all that loot went right into his pockets to keep him, his wives, and his concubines well-fed; and don’t forget his priests, along with their wives and lady-friends; he turned the kingdom upside down.
He sent all them priests his daddy had set up packin’, and brought in fresh ones who were puffed up with pride in their hearts.
Yup, they were all kept busy in their laziness and idol-worship, with the taxes king Noah had put on his folks; so the folks toiled hard just to support that heap of iniquity.
They became idolators too, tricked by the sweet talkin’ of the king and his priests, who threw slick words their way.
Then it came to pass that king Noah got busy buildin’ a whole mess of fine and spacious buildings; he decked ‘em out with all sorts of nice woodwork, and shiny treasures made of gold, silver, iron, brass, ziff, and copper;
He even put up a grand palace with a throne smack dab in the middle, all decked out in fine wood and glimmering gold and silver.
And he made sure his workmen crafted all kinds of fancy designs within the temple walls, usin’ fine wood, copper, and brass.
As for the seats reserved for the high priests, he fancied those up with pure gold; and he had a breastwork built in front of ‘em so they could rest their weary bodies and arms while spoutin’ off their lies to the folks.
Then it came to pass that he had himself a tall tower built close to the temple; mighty high it was, high enough for him to stand atop and look over the land of Shilom, and the land of Shemlon, where them Lamanites roamed; he could see for miles around.
And it also came to pass that he had a whole bunch of other buildings put up in Shilom; he had a great tower built on the hill north of that land, where the Nephi kids used to hang out before packin’ up and leavin’; that’s how he spent the riches he wrangled from taxing his people.
He got his heart all tied up in his riches, spendin’ his days livin’ high with his wives and concubines; and likewise, his priests wasted their time with harlots.
Eventually, he planted vineyards all around, built himself some wine-presses, and started makin’ wine like it was water; before long, he was known as a wine-bibber, and his folks joined in on the fun.
Well, the Lamanites started comin’ into their territory in small numbers, takin’ ‘em out in the fields and while they tended their flocks.
King Noah sent out guards to keep ‘em at bay; but he didn’t send enough of ‘em, and the Lamanites came charging in, killin’ folks and driving many of their animals off the land; it didn’t take long for the Lamanites to wreak havoc and unleash their fury on ‘em.
Then king Noah sent his armies after ‘em, and for a spell, they drove ‘em back, so they came back home crowin’ about their spoil.
Now, thanks to that grand victory, they got all puffed up with pride, boastin’ about their strength, sayin’ their fifty could take on thousands of Lamanites; they reveled in blood and the doin’ in of their own kin, all on account of their wicked king and priests.
Then there was this fella named Abinadi; he rode into town and started prophesyin’, sayin’, “Listen up, this is what the Good Lord says, and here’s His command: you tell this people, ‘Woe unto ’em, for I’ve seen their wickedness and their abominations; and if they don’t turn around, I’ll unleash my anger on ‘em.’”
“And if they don’t turn back to the Lord their God, I’ll hand ‘em over to their enemies; they’ll find themselves in bondage, and their adversaries will put the squeeze on ‘em.”
“And they’ll come to know that I’m their Lord and a jealous God, visitin’ the sins of my people.”
“And mark my words, if this people doesn’t repent and turn back to the Lord their God, they’ll find themselves captives; and there won’t be no one to save ‘em, save the Almighty Lord.”
“Yup, and when they cry out to me, I’ll be slow to hear ‘em; I’ll let ‘em get smacked down by their enemies.”
“And if they don’t repent, wailin’ in sackcloth and ashes, and crying out to the Lord their God, I ain’t gonna listen to their prayers, nor will I pull 'em outta their troubles; that’s what the Lord says, and that’s the order I got.”
Now it came to pass that when Abinadi finished sayin’ all this, the folks got furious with him and wanted to take his life; but the Lord yanked him right outta their clutches.
Now when king Noah caught wind of what Abinadi was sayin’ to the people, he got just as furious; he hollered, “Who the heck is Abinadi, that me and my folks should have to listen to him, or who’s the Lord to bring such trouble upon us?”
“I order you to fetch Abinadi here, ‘cause I'm fixin’ to take him out; he’s stirrin’ up my folks against each other and causin’ all kinds of ruckus; I’m gonna put an end to him.”
But the people’s eyes were blinded; they hardened their hearts against Abinadi’s words, and from that moment on, they were hell-bent on takin’ him down. And king Noah stiffened his heart against the Lord’s word, and he didn’t turn away from his evil ways.
