Well, after a couple of years passin’ by, Abinadi rode in amongst 'em, disguised so they couldn’t recognize him, and he starts prophesyin' right and left, sayin’: The Lord done sent me on a mission, tellin’ me—Abinadi, get on out there and prophecy to my folks, ‘cause their hearts are as tough as leather against my words; they ain’t turned from their wicked ways; so I’ll be visitin’ ‘em with a heap of anger, yes sir, fierce anger ‘bout their sins and abominations.
Yup, curse this here generation! And the Lord said to me: Reach out yer hand and prophecy, sayin’: The Lord says, ‘Before long, this generation, on account of their wickedness, will find themselves in chains, slapped around, driven by men, meets their end; and the buzzards and hounds, and wild beasts will feast on their flesh like it’s the last supper.
And it’ll come to pass that the life of King Noah will be worth no more than an ol’ rag in a blazing furnace; he’ll come to know that I am the Lord.
And I’ll be bringin’ down a heap of troubles on my folks, yes sir, with hunger and sickness; they’ll be howlin' day in and day out.
And I’ll make sure they’re burdened down like a pack mule; they’ll be driven along like simple critters.
And I’ll be sendin’ hail down fer ‘em, smackin’ ‘em hard; the east wind will blow their way and bugs will swarm their land, eatin’ up their crops.
And they’ll be hit with a mighty pestilence—and all this I’ll do ‘cause of their sins and abominations.
And it’ll come to pass that if they don’t turn their ways, I’ll wipe ‘em off the face of the earth; but they’ll leave behind a record, and I’ll make sure it lasts for other nations settlin’ this land; for I’ll reveal the wickedness of this people to the rest of the world. Abinadi had a whole lot more to say about these folks.
Then they got themselves all riled up at him; took him by force and dragged him, all tied up, before the king. They said to the king: Look here, we’ve brought a fella who’s been prophesyin’ doom for yer people, claimin’ that God’s fixin’ to wipe ‘em out.
And he’s also prophesied doom fer your life, claimin’ that yer life’ll be like a rag in a fiery furnace.
And again, he proclaims you’ll be like a dried-up stalk in the field, just trampled underfoot by critters.
And once more he says you’ll be like thistle blooms, when they’re ripe, if the wind blows, they’ll be scattered across the land. He acts like the Lord spoke it. He says all this will come your way ‘less you change yer ways, ‘cause of yer wickedness.
Now, O king, what on earth have you done, or what sins have yer folks committed to be judged by God or condemned by this man?
Now, O king, see here, we ain't guilty, and you, O king, ain’t done nothin' wrong; so this fella here’s just spoutin’ lies about ya, prophesyin’ in vain.
Look here, we’re strong, ain’t no way we’ll be throwed into chains or captured by our enemies; you’ve thrived in the land, and darndest if you won’t keep on prosperin’.
Look here, here’s the man, we’re turnin’ him over to ya; you can do with him what you think is right.
So it come to pass that King Noah ordered Abinadi to be thrown in the slammer; then he called together his priests to figure out what they’d do about this fella.
Then they said to the king: Bring him here so we can grill him; the king commanded he be brought before ‘em.
And they started questionin’ him, tryin' to trip him up, lookin’ for somethin’ to pin on him; but he stood his ground, answered 'em bold as brass, astonishin’ ‘em with his replies; for he didn’t falter in any of their questions and left ‘em all confounded.
Then one of ‘em piped up: What do those words mean, the ones writ and taught by our forebears, sayin’:
Ain’t it grand on the mountains when a fella brings good news; spreads peace; talks about good tidings; brings news of salvation; and tells Zion, “Your God is king!”
The watchmen will raise their voices; together they’ll sing; they'll see eye to eye when the Lord brings Zion back.
Rejoice, sing together you desolate places of Jerusalem; for the Lord's comforted His people, He’s redeemed Jerusalem.
The Lord’s rolled up His sleeves for all the nations to see, and all the corners of the earth will see the salvation of our God?
Then Abinadi said to ‘em: So you call yourselves priests, pretendin’ to teach this folks, claimin’ to know the spirit of prophecy, and yet you wanna know from me what these things mean?
I tell ya, shame on ya for twistin’ the Lord’s ways! If you really understood all this, you wouldn’t be teachin’ ‘em wrong, so ya’ve distorted the paths of the Lord.
You ain't put your hearts into understandin’; that’s why you ain't been all that wise. So what’s it you’re teachin’ this folks?
And they answered: We teach the law of Moses.
Then he says to ‘em again: If y’all teach the law of Moses, then why don’t you follow it? Why you settlin’ your sights on riches? Why you causin’ these folks to sin, makin’ the Lord have no choice but send me to prophesy against ‘em, tellin’ ‘em it’s gonna be real bad?
Don’t you know I tell the truth? Yep, you know I do; so you oughta be lyin’ low before God.
And it’ll come to pass that you’ll get a taste of punishment for your sins, ‘cause you said you teach the law of Moses. And what do you really know about the law of Moses? Does salvation come by the law of Moses? Whatcha got to say?
And they replied sayin’ salvation comes by the law of Moses.
But Abinadi shot back at ‘em: I know this—if you keep the commandments of God, you’ll be saved, yes sir; if you stick to the commandments the Lord handed down to Moses up on Sinai, sayin’:
I am the Lord your God, who brought you out from the land of Egypt, out of that house of bondage.
You ain’t allowed to have no other gods before me.
You ain’t to carve no graven images, or likeness of anythin’ in the sky or on the earth down below.
Now, Abinadi asked ‘em, Have ya done all that? I say to you, Nope, you ain’t done a lick of it. And have ya told this folks to do all these things? I say to you, Nope, you ain't done that neither.
