Yup, ain't Isaiah askin': Who's been buyin' what we're sellin', and who’s got an eye for the power of the Lord?
He’ll sprout up like a little seedling right in front of ‘em, just like a root pokin' up from parched soil; he ain't got no fancy looks or charm, and when we catch a glimpse of him, he sure ain't someone we'd go racin' after.
Folks turned their backs on him, called him a real downer, a man carryin' the weight of sorrow; we sure didn’t wanna look his way, since he was scorned, and we valued him not a lick.
But he sure took on our heartaches and carried our burdens; still, we figured he was bein' punished, gettin' whacked by the Almighty, and strugglin’ like the rest of us.
He got hurt for our wrongdoings, bruised for our misdeeds; the licks we deserved landed on him, and because he took those beatings, we’re made whole again.
We all, just like sheep, wandered off; each of us went off on our own way; and the Lord piled up all our sins on him.
He faced hard times and was layin' low, but didn't say a peep; like a lamb headin’ to the slaughter, he just stood there quiet, like a sheep bein' shorn.
They dragged him away from lockup and judgment; and who’s gonna tell his tale? He got snatched away from the land of livin', hurtin’ for the wrongs of my people.
He got laid to rest with the bad folks, and with the well-off in his death; didn’t do a single thing wrong, nor was there any trickery in what he said.
But the Lord decided to give him a rough time; he let him feel the pain; when he makes his soul a sacrifice for sin, he'll see his kin and have a long life, and the Lord's pleasure will flourish in his hands.
He’ll see the hard work of his soul, and he’s gonna be satisfied; through his wisdom, my righteous servant will clear many folks of their wrongs, for he’ll carry their iniquities.
So I’m gonna give him a share with the mighty, and he’ll split the riches with the strong; ‘cause he laid his soul down for death; he was counted among the wrongdoers; he took on the sins of many and made peace for them transgressors.
