Well now, it all went down like this: when Abinadi finished spoutin' his truth, the king gave a holler for the priests to haul him off and make sure he met his end.
But hold your horses! There was a fella named Alma in the mix, a true Nephi descendant. He was a young buck, and he believed every word that Abinadi had thrown down, knowin' all too well the wrongs Abinadi had called out. So he started plead in’ with the king, hopin’ he’d let Abinadi ride on outta there in peace.
But the king got hotter than a July sun and kicked Alma outta the bunch, sendin' his men after him to take care of business.
Alma skedaddled before they could lay a finger on him, hidin’ out so they couldn’t find a trace. He kept his nose to the grindstone, writin' down every word Abinadi had spoken while he stayed outta sight for days on end.
Then the king set his guards to surround Abinadi and round him up; they tied him up tight and tossed him in the slammer.
After three long days sittin' and chewin' over it with his priests, the king called Abinadi back for another round.
He said, "Listen up, Abinadi. We’ve got somethin' against you, and it’s lookin' real bad. You’re liable to lose your life."
"For you’ve claimed that God himself would come down to the folks; so now, if you don’t take back all them words you’ve spoken against me and my people, you’ll be payin' for it with your life."
Abinadi retorted, "I ain't takin' back a single word I’ve said about this bunch, 'cause it’s all the gospel truth. If you need proof, I’m now sittin' right here in your hands."
"Yep, I’ll even brave death itself, and I won’t recall my words. They’ll stand as a witness against you. If you put me down, you’ll be spillin' innocent blood, and that’ll also come back to haunt you on the final day."
At this point, King Noah nearly set him free, rattled by Abinadi’s words, scared that God’s judgment would come a-callin’.
But them priests started yappin’ against Abinadi, claimin’ he dissed the king. That stirred the king's anger even more, and he turned him over to be done in.
Sooner than you could blink, they had him tied up, and they took to whippin’ him with sticks, pushin’ him to the brink of death.
Then when the flames began to singe his skin, he hollered at them, sayin':
"Just as y’all have done to me, your kin will end up makin’ many folks feel the scorch of death by fire too, 'cause they have faith in the salvation of the Lord God Almighty."
"And mark my words, you’ll be plagued by all sorts of sicknesses for your wickedness."
"Yep, you’ll be knocked around on every side, driven to and fro like a herd of sheep spooked by wild beasts."
"And on that day, your enemies will hunt you down, and you’ll feel the fire’s pain just like I’m feelin’ now."
"Thus, God brings vengeance on them that seek to destroy His people. O Lord, take my soul."
And just like that, after Abinadi said his piece, he hit the ground, meetin’ his end by fire; he got done in because he wouldn't back down from God’s commandments and sealed the truth of his words with his life.
