Well, the king’s army rustled back home, lookin’ for the folks of the Lord but found nothin’ but dust and disappointment.
Now hold on, the king’s army was smaller than a pint-sized cowboy, and it started to splinter among those that remained.
The less stout-hearted bunch started hollerin’ threats at the king, and oh boy, did it stir up quite the ruckus.
And then there was this fella named Gideon, a right strongman who couldn’t stand the king, so he pulled his blade and vowed in a temper that he’d take out the king.
So, he went toe-to-toe with the king, and when the king saw he was about to get his comeuppance, he took off like a scalded cat and climbed up a tower near the temple.
Gideon chased after him and was fixin’ to climb that tower, but the king looked around and saw the Lamanites were breaching their territory.
The king let out a cry, his insides twisted up, sayin’: “Gideon, don’t do this! The Lamanites are charging in, and they’ll wipe us out; my people too!”
But truth be told, the king cared more about his own neck than his people, yet Gideon showed him mercy and let him live.
The king barked orders to the folks to haul tails before the Lamanites, leading them himself, skedaddling into the wilderness with all their kinfolk.
But the Lamanites chased ‘em down, caught up, and started takin’ them out one by one.
Then the king hollered at the men to leave their wives and young’uns behind and make a run for it from the Lamanites.
Many men stood their ground, not willin' to abandon their families, while the rest scurried off, leavin’ their loved ones behind.
Those who stayed back with their families got their pretty daughters to step forward and plead with the Lamanites to spare their lives.
And wouldn’t you know it, the Lamanites took pity on ‘em, enchanted by the beauty of their womenfolk.
So the Lamanites let ‘em live, took ‘em captive, and hauled 'em back to the land of Nephi, agreeing they could keep the land if they turned over King Noah and half of all their possessions, gold, silver, and prized trinkets, payin’ tribute to the Lamanites yearly.
Now one of the king’s sons among the captives was named Limhi.
Limhi wanted his pa to keep on truckin’, though he wasn’t blind to his father’s wickedness, bein’ a decent man himself.
So Gideon sent his men sneakily out west to track down the king and his crew, runnin’ into folks in the wild, except for the king and his priests.
They were bound and determined to get back to Nephi, planning on avenging their families if they were murdered, even if it cost 'em their own lives.
The king ordered ‘em not to go back, and they got riled up with the king, wanting him to suffer, even to burn at the stake.
They thought about takin’ out the priests too, but they skedaddled before anything could be done.
They were fixin’ to head back to Nephi when they came across Gideon’s crew, who filled ‘em in on what had befallen their wives and kids, and how they had a deal to keep the land by payin’ half of their stuff to the Lamanites.
The folks told Gideon’s men they had done in the king, and his priests had high-tailed it deeper into the wilderness.
After they wrapped up their business, they made their way back to Nephi, feelin’ mighty pleased that their families were still kickin’; and they informed Gideon about their showdown with the king.
Then the king of the Lamanites made a promise not to put a hurtin’ on ‘em.
Limhi, bein’ the king’s offspring and given the crown by the people, also swore to the Lamanite king that his folks would fork over tribute, half of what they owned.
And so, Limhi started settlin’ the kingdom and bringin’ peace to his people.
The Lamanite king stationed guards all ‘round the territory to keep Limhi’s folks from skedaddlin’ off into the wilderness, supportin’ them with the tribute he collected from the Nephites.
And for two whole years, King Limhi enjoyed peace in his domain, with the Lamanites not stirrin’ up any trouble or tryin’ to wipe ‘em out.
