Limhi and his folks rode back to the town of Nephi, settlin’ down in that patch of land again, makin’ life easy and peaceful-like.
Then, after a spell, them Lamanites rustled up their anger against the Nephites again, and started ridin' in on their territory all riled up.
Now they didn’t dare shoot ‘em down ‘cause their king had sworn an oath to Limhi; instead, they slapped ‘em on the cheeks and strutted around like they owned the place. They piled heavy loads on their backs and drove ‘em around like they was workin’ a stubborn mule—
Yup, all this was happenin’ to bring the good word of the Lord to pass.
Now them Nephites were sufferin’ plenty, and there just wasn’t no way for ‘em to free themselves from the mess, ‘cause the Lamanites had them surrounded tight.
Then the folks started grumblin' to the king ‘cause of their troubles, gettin’ hot under the collar to go at ‘em in battle. They sure laid it on thick with their complaints, so he finally gave in and let ‘em pursue their wishes.
So they gathered up again, strapped on their armor, and set out to drive the Lamanites outta their land.
But lo and behold, the Lamanites whipped ‘em good, sendin’ ‘em back home and takin’ down a whole mess of ‘em.
Now there was a whole lotta cryin’ and sorrow in Limhi’s camp, with widows lamentin’ their husbands, sons and daughters droopin’ for their fathers, and brothers mournin’ for their kin.
And there were plenty of widows around, hollerin’ day in and day out, 'cause they was scared stiff of the Lamanites.
Their constant wailin’ got the rest of Limhi’s folks all riled up against the Lamanites again; so they charged into battle once more, but they got sent packin’ again, takin’ heavy losses.
Sure enough, they tried again for a third time, and faced the same fate; those that weren’t killed made their way back to the city of Nephi.
They humbled themselves right down to the dirt, wearin’ the yoke of servitude, lettin’ themselves be slapped around, driven around, and burdened as their enemies wished.
They really humbled themselves deep down; they cried out to God, lettin’ their voices ring out all day long, beggin’ Him to pull ‘em outta their troubles.
But the Lord took His time listenin’ to their cries ‘cause of their wrongdoings; still, He did hear their pleas and started to soften the hearts of the Lamanites, makin’ ‘em lighten the load a bit; but He didn’t see fit to free ‘em from their bondage.
Then it came to pass that they began to prosper little by little in the land, raisin’ up more grain and livestock, so they weren’t starvin’ anymore.
Now there were more women than men round these parts; so King Limhi ordered each man to pitch in for the widows and their kids, so they wouldn’t starve. They did this ‘cause so many had been lost to the battle.
The folks of Limhi stuck together as best they could, keepin’ their grain and flocks all safe.
And the king didn’t trust himself outside the city walls without his guards, scared that somehow he'd fall into Lamanite hands.
He made sure his folks kept an eye on the lands around, hopin’ to catch them priests that had fled into the wild, the ones who’d swiped the Lamanite daughters and brought a heap of trouble down on ‘em.
They was eager to catch those scoundrels to dish out some punishment; those rascals had snuck into Nephi under the cover of night, steal’n their grain and valuable goods, so they laid in wait for ‘em.
Then it happened that there was no more ruckus between the Lamanites and Limhi’s folks until Ammon and his brother showed up in these parts.
Now the king, bein’ outside the city gates with his guard, spotted Ammon and his crew; thinkin’ they were priests of Noah, he ordered them taken, tied up, and tossed in jail. If they really were them priests, he woulda ordered 'em done away with.
But when he realized they weren’t, but his own kin who had come from Zarahemla, he felt like a brand new man full of joy.
Before Ammon showed up, King Limhi had sent out a little band to go lookin’ for the land of Zarahemla; but they couldn’t find it and got lost in the wild.
Nevertheless, they stumbled upon a land that was once populated—yup, a graveyard of dry bones; a place that had been livin’ but was now destroyed; they thought it was Zarahemla and headed back to Nephi, gettin’ in just before Ammon arrived.
And they brought back a record, a log of the folks whose bones they’d found, engraven on shiny plates of ore.
Now Limhi was happier than a lark learnin’ from Ammon that King Mosiah could work magic with God’s gift, interpretin’ them engravings; and Ammon was all smiles too.
But Ammon and his kin felt a deep sorrow ‘cause so many of their folks had bit the dust;
And also ‘cause King Noah and his priests had led ‘em into lots of sins and evildoing against God; they mourned the loss of Abinadi too, and for Alma and his crew who took off and started a church of God through God’s strength and the faith in Abinadi’s words.
Yep, they mourned their departure, 'cause they didn’t know where they’d run off to. They woulda been right glad to join ‘em, seein’ as they’d made a promise to God to serve Him and follow His commandments.
Now since Ammon’s arrival, King Limhi and many of his folks had made their own promise to God too, to serve Him and keep His commandments.
Then it happened that King Limhi and many of his crew wanted to be baptized; but there wasn’t nobody around with God’s authority. Ammon figured he wasn’t fit to perform that duty himself.
So they didn’t form a church at that time, waitin’ on the Spirit of the Lord. They wished to be like Alma and his folks who ran into the wilderness.
They were itchin’ to get baptized as a showin’ and proof that they were ready to serve God with all their hearts; but they dragged their feet, and the tale of their baptism will come later.
And now all Ammon’s thoughts, along with those of his people, and King Limhi and his folks, was to set themselves free from the Lamanites and their bondage.
