Well now, here’s how the tale goes, translated into good ol’ cowboy lingo:
A yarn 'bout Alma and the folks of the Good Lord, who got pushed into the wilds by King Noah’s crew.
Coverin' chapters and 24.
Alma didn't take to the idea of bein' a king—he was more of a high priest—The Good Lord gave 'em a good ol’ chastisin' for their ways, and them Lamanites took over the land of Helam—Amulon, the head honcho of King Noah’s no-good priests, was takin' orders from the Lamanite king. ’Bout 145–121 B.C.
Alma got word from the Good Lord that King Noah’s army was a-comin’, and once he let his folks in on it, they rounded up their critters, grabbed their grain, and high-tailed it into the wilds to escape those lickin' soldiers.
The Good Lord gave ‘em a boost so that King Noah’s gang couldn’t catch up to mess with ‘em.
They ran for eight days deeper into the wild.
They stumbled onto a land—real nice and pretty, a spot with fresh water everywhere.
They set up their tents, started workin’ the soil, and built themselves some structures; they weren’t sittin’ idle, workin’ their tails off.
The folks was hopin’ Alma would don the crown, seein’ as how he was loved and respected by ‘em all.
But he told ‘em: “Now listen here, it ain’t wise to have a king; the Good Lord says this: y’all ain't supposed to think one flesh is more important than another, or one fella better than the next; so I reckon it ain’t wise to have a king.”
Still, if you could have just and righteous men as your kings, it might be a good thing.
But don’t you forget the wickedness of King Noah and his priests; I fell into their traps, too, doin' things that made the Good Lord mighty displeased, and I felt real sorry for ‘em.
Yet after much hard times, the Good Lord heard my cries, answered my prayers, and made me a tool in His hands to bring so many of ya to the truth.
But I ain't braggin’, 'cause I ain't worthy to take any glory for myself.
Now listen, y’all been pushed around by King Noah, bound like prisoners by him and his priests, and they dragged ya down into sin; y’all were tied up in those wicked ways.
Now that you been freed by the Good Lord's power from those chains, I want ya to stand strong in this freedom you got, and don’t trust nobody to be your king.
And don’t put your faith in nobody to be your teacher or minister unless he’s a man of God, stickin’ to His ways and commandments.
So Alma laid it out for his folks, that every man oughta love his neighbor just like himself, and there shouldn't be no fussin’ among ‘em.
And now, Alma was their high priest, bein’ the one who started up their church.
And it happened that no one got the go-ahead to preach or teach unless it come from him by way of God. So he ordained all their priests and teachers; and none were ordained unless they was good men.
So they kept an eye on their folks and fed ‘em with righteous stuff.
And they started doin’ mighty well in the land; they called it Helam.
And it turned out they multiplied and thrived in Helam; they built a town and called it the city of Helam.
Still, the Good Lord figured it was time to whip His folks into shape; He was testin' their patience and their faith.
But don’t you forget—whoever puts their trust in Him will be raised up in the end. And that’s just what happened to these folks.
For lo and behold, I’ll show you they got put into bondage, and no one could get ‘em out but the Lord their God, even the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob.
And it came to pass He did set ‘em free, showin’ off His mighty power, and they had themselves quite the rejoicin’.
As it happened, while they was workin’ the land of Helam, lo and behold, there was an army of the Lamanites hangin’ ‘round the outskirts.
At that point, Alma’s kin folks hightailed it from their fields and gathered in the city of Helam; they were mighty scared with the Lamanites movin’ in.
But Alma stepped up, standin’ tall among ‘em, and urged ‘em to be brave, remindin’ ‘em the Good Lord would deliver ‘em.
So they calmed their fears and cried out to the Lord, askin’ Him to soften them Lamanites’ hearts so they’d spare ‘em, their wives, and their little ones.
And it happened the Good Lord did soften the Lamanites' hearts. Alma and his brethren walked right up and turned themselves in; the Lamanites took over the land of Helam.
Now the Lamanite troops that was followin’ after King Limhi’s people had been wanderin’ lost in the wild for a good spell.
And there they found those priests of King Noah, camped out in a place they called Amulon; they started settlin’ down and workin’ the land there.
The leader of those priests was named Amulon.
It came to pass Amulon begged the Lamanites, and he even sent back their wives, who were Lamanite ladies, to plead with their kinfolk not to destroy their fellas.
The Lamanites took pity on Amulon and his crew, and they didn’t wipe ‘em out ‘cause of their wives.
So Amulon and his brothers joined the Lamanite ranks, wanderin’ the wilderness lookin’ for the land of Nephi when they stumbled across Helam, where Alma and his band were.
And it came to pass the Lamanites promised Alma and his brethren that if they’d show the way to the land of Nephi, they’d spare their lives and their freedom.
But after Alma pointed ‘em in the right direction to Nephi’s land, the Lamanites didn’t hold to their promise; instead, they set up guards 'round Helam, keepin’ a watchful eye on Alma and the boys.
The rest of ‘em headed to the land of Nephi, while some returned to Helam, bringin’ along the wives and young’uns of the guards left behind.
And the Lamanite king gave Amulon the nod to be a king and ruler over his folks in Helam; but he wasn’t allowed to do anything that the Lamanite king didn’t approve of.
