Well, it happened that ol' Amulon wrangled himself a good spot in the king of the Lamanites' good graces; thus, the king handed him and his pals the job of teachers over his folks, yessiree, even over them folks livin' in the lands named Shemlon, Shilom, and Amulon.
The Lamanites had laid claim to all these territories; so, the king of the Lamanites went and named some kings over all these lands.
Now, the name of the king of the Lamanites was Laman, named after his old man; so folks called him King Laman. He was the head honcho over a mighty big crowd.
He picked teachers from Amulon's bunch to fill the role in every land held by his people; thus, the lingo of Nephi started gettin' taught amongst the Lamanites.
They were a friendly bunch to one another, but bless their hearts, they didn’t know a lick about God; nor did Amulon’s kin teach 'em a thing about the Lord or the law of Moses, or even the words of that fella Abinadi.
But they told 'em to keep track of their records and write to one another.
So, the Lamanites began to pile up riches, swapping goods among themselves, getting bigger and wiser in the ways of the world, turnin' into a sly and wise bunch, delighting in all sorts of mischief and raiding, except when it came to their own kin.
Now it came to pass that Amulon started lording over Alma and his friends, causin' trouble for 'em, and made sure that their kids gave Alma's kids a hard time too.
Amulon knew Alma was once one of the king’s priests, and he believed them words of Abinadi, which got him run outta town by the king, so Amulon was fit to be tied with him; even though he had to answer to King Laman, he acted like he was the boss, throwin’ chores at 'em and settin' overseers over 'em.
And it came to pass that their troubles got so heavy, they began to holler out to God.
Amulon ordered ‘em to hush their cries; and he posted guards to keep an eye on 'em so that anyone caught callin' on God would be done in.
Alma and his folks didn’t raise their voices to the Lord God, but instead, they poured out their hearts; and He knew what they were thinkin’.
Then, the voice of the Lord came to 'em in their struggles, sayin': Lift up your heads and be of good cheer, for I know about the promise you made to me; and I will promise my people and pull 'em outta this bind.
I’ll lighten the loads you've got on your shoulders, so much so that you won’t even notice 'em while in chains; and I’m doin’ this so y’all can stand as witnesses for me later on, and know for certain that I, the Lord God, come to my people in their trials.
Now it came to pass that the burdens on Alma and his kin were made light; the Lord strengthened 'em so they could carry on without a hitch, and they accepted everything with a smile and patience for the Lord's will.
Well, their faith and patience turned out so strong that the Lord spoke to 'em again, sayin': Be of good cheer, for tomorrow I’m fixin’ to get you outta that mess.
He told Alma: You’re gonna lead this crowd, and I’ll be right alongside ya to get 'em outta bondage.
It came to pass that Alma and his folks gathered up their critters and grain in the dead of night, yes indeed, they wrangled all night so they’d be ready.
Come sunrise, the Lord put the Lamanites in a deep slumber, and all their overseers were fast asleep.
Alma and his folks snuck off into the wild; they traveled all day and set up camp in a valley, naming it Alma since he was leadin' ‘em through the wilderness.
And in the valley of Alma, they gave their thanks to God for bein' merciful, easing their loads, and deliverin’ ‘em from captivity; for they’d been in chains, and none could help except the Lord their God.
They lifted their voices in gratitude to God, all the men, women, and children who could speak praised the Lord.
Then the Lord said to Alma: Get a move on and take your folks outta this here land, for the Lamanites are awake and are chasin’ after ya; so get outta this spot, and I’ll hold the Lamanites back in this valley so they won’t catch up to you.
And it came to pass that they packed up and left the valley, settin' off into the wilderness.
After twelve long days in the wild, they finally made it to the land of Zarahemla, and King Mosiah welcomed 'em with open arms.
