Mosiah, the king, wrangled up all the folks and brought 'em together for a powwow.
Now, there weren’t near as many young'uns from Nephi as there were from Zarahemla, they bein' Mulek's kin and all those who’d moseyed in with him from the wilds.
And there weren’t near as many Nephites and Zarahelmites as them pesky Lamanites; no sir, they were hardly half as plenty.
So all the Nephites gathered ‘round, along with the folks from Zarahemla, split into two big groups.
Then Mosiah got up and read the tales from Zeniff to his kin; he read from when they skedaddled from Zarahemla up ’til they made it back home again.
He also spun the yarn ‘bout Alma and his buddies, recountin’ all the hardships they faced from the time they left Zarahemla to when they finally hit the trail back.
When Mosiah wrapped up the readings, his folks hangin’ around were just flabbergasted and starin’ wide-eyed in wonder.
They didn’t know how to wrap their heads ‘round it; when they saw them folks who got freed from servitude, their hearts leapt with joy.
But then they remembered their brethren who got taken down by the Lamanites, and sorrow hit ‘em hard, bringin’ on a flood of tears.
Again, thinkin’ ‘bout how good God had been bringin’ Alma and his pals outta the Lamanites’ grip, they raised their voices and gave thanks to the Almighty.
And once more, when they pondered on the Lamanites, their kin folks in a sorry state of sin, pain shot through ‘em for the fate of their souls.
Now it came to pass that them young’uns from Amulon and his brothers, who’d taken Lamanite gals for wives, weren’t too happy with how their daddies behaved, so they decided to shed their old names and called themselves Nephites to be counted among ‘em.
Now all the folks from Zarahemla got counted with the Nephites, ‘cause the crown was handed down only to them who were Nephi’s descendants.
Then Mosiah, after he'd done talkin’ and readin’ to the crowd, figured it’d be good for Alma to have a word with ‘em too.
Alma hopped up to talk to the throng, movin’ ‘round like a tumbleweed, preachin’ repentance and faith in the Good Lord.
He pushed Limhi and his crew—the ones freed from captivity—to remember it was the Lord what saved ‘em.
After Alma had spun his tales and wrapped up with the folks, king Limhi was itchin’ to get baptized, and all his kin were eager too.
So Alma waded into the creek and baptized 'em right, just like he did with his kin down at Mormon’s waters; and everyone who got dunked joined the church of God, ‘cause they believed in what Alma had said.
Then Mosiah gave Alma the green light to set up churches all over Zarahemla and empowered him to ordain priests and teachers for every little group.
This was 'cause there were so many folks that one teacher couldn’t wrangle 'em all, nor could they squeeze into one meetin’ to hear the Word.
So they gathered in different bunches, callin’ ‘em churches; each church had their own priests and teachers, every priest preachin’ what Alma had laid down.
And though there were lots of churches, they were all one big family under God; the only thing preached in any of ‘em was repentance and faith in the Lord.
Well, it turned out there were seven churches in Zarahemla, and it came to pass that anyone wantin’ to wear the name of Christ or God joined the churches.
And they were known as the people of God. The Lord poured His Spirit over ‘em, blessin’ ‘em and makin’ ‘em thrive in the land.
