Now it happened that there were plenty of young'uns who just couldn't wrap their heads around what old King Benjamin was yappin' about, seein' as they were just knee-high to a grasshopper when he was spoutin' off to his folks; they didn't buy into their pop's old tales.
They were skeptical 'bout talk of folks comin' back to life, and they sure weren't convinced about a fella named Christ swoopin' in.
And since they lacked faith, they couldn't make heads or tails of God's words; their hearts were tougher than leather.
They flat-out refused to get dunked in the water; they wouldn't hitch their wagons to the church neither. They stayed a wild bunch, stuck in their ways, and never called on the Lord their God.
And now under Mosiah’s rule, they weren’t near as many as the good folks; but ‘cause of fussin' among the brethren, they grew in numbers.
For it went down that they pulled the wool over plenty of church folks with their sweet-talkin', leadin' 'em to all sorts of shenanigans; so it made sense for the church to give a good scoldin' to those who strayed.
Then they were dragged in front of the priests, handed over by the teachers; and the priests led ‘em to Alma, the high priest in charge.
Now King Mosiah had given Alma the reins over the church.
Alma didn’t quite know what to do with 'em; but there were a heap of witnesses pointin' the finger at their misdeeds—yup, folks standing tall and spillin’ the beans on their wrongdoings.
Now this kinda mess hadn’t been seen before in the church; so Alma was feelin' mighty uneasy and called for a powwow with the king.
He said to the king: "Look here, we’ve brought a whole passel of folks to ya, accused by their brothers; and they’ve been caught in a mess of sins. They ain't showin' any signs of turnin’ from their wicked ways; that’s why we brought ‘em to you, to get your judgment on their offenses."
But King Mosiah replied to Alma: "I ain't no judge of 'em; so I’m passin' ‘em off to you for you to decide."
Now Alma felt a renewed weight on his shoulders; he went and put the question to the Lord about how to handle all this, worried he'd mess up in God's eyes.
Then after he spilled his heart out to God, the Lord’s voice rang out to him, sayin':
"Blessed are ya, Alma, and blessed are them who took a dip in the waters of Mormon. You're blessed ‘cause of your pure faith in the words of my servant Abinadi."
And those folks are blessed for their deep trust in the words that you've shared with 'em.
And blessed are ya 'cause you’ve set up a church among these folk; they'll be grounded, and they'll be my herd.
Oh yes, blessed is this bunch who’s willin' to carry my name; for in my name they'll be called, and they belong to me.
And ‘cause you asked about the wrongdoer, you’re blessed.
You’re my servant; and I strike a deal with you that you’ll have forever life; and you’ll serve me and go out in my name, roundin' up my sheep.
And anyone who listens to my voice will be my sheep; and you’ll welcome ‘em into the church, and I’ll take ‘em in too.
For this right here is my church; anyone who gets dunked will do so for repentin' purposes. Whosoever you welcome will be believing in my name; and I’ll forgive 'em without question.
For I take on the sins of the whole wide world; I’m the one who made ‘em; and it’s I who gives a spot at my right hand to them that believe till the end.
For ya see, in my name they're called; and if they truly know me, they’ll rise up and find a home forever at my right hand.
When that second horn blows, those who never knew me will step forward and stand before me.
And then they’ll know that I am the Lord their God, their Redeemer; but they turned their back on my redemption.
And then I’ll have to tell them that I never knew 'em; and they’ll be off to the fiery pit prepared for the devil and his posse.
So I’m tellin’ ya, if someone won’t listen to my voice, you ain’t to take 'em into my church, for I won’t take 'em in at the final hour.
So I’m saying to ya, go; and anyone who trespasses against me, you’ll judge ’em based on the sins they’ve committed; and if they come clean before you and me, truly repentin’ in their heart, you’ll forgive 'em, and I’ll forgive 'em too.
Yup, and as long as my folks keep turnin’ back to me, I’ll wipe the slate clean of their wrongs against me.
And you’re to forgive one another too; for I tell ya, anyone who won’t forgive their neighbor’s wrongs when they claim to be repentin’ has put themselves in a heap of trouble.
Now I’m telling ya, go; and anyone who won’t turn from their sins won’t be counted as part of my people; and this rule will stick from here on out.
When Alma heard these words, he jotted ‘em down to keep ‘em close and to judge his church folks by God’s commands.
Then Alma went and judged those caught up in their sins, following the Lord’s orders.
And the ones who repented and fessed up, he counted among the church folks;
But those who wouldn’t take responsibility for their sins and turn from their wickedness didn’t make the cut, and their names got wiped off the list.
Then Alma got things in order for the church; and they started findin' peace and prospering like you wouldn’t believe, walking right before God, takin’ in many and baptizing a bunch more.
Now all these things Alma and his trusty partners pulled off 'cause they were over the church, laboring hard, preachin’ God’s word, takin’ on all kinds of troubles, and bein' chased by all those who weren’t part of the Lord’s crew.
And they gave warnings to their brothers; and each one was also scolded by God’s word, based on their sins, bein’ told by God to pray without end, and to give thanks in every situation.
