Well now, it came to be that the troubles the unbelievin' folks were causin' to the church got so rough that the faithful started grumblin' and lettin' their leaders know about it; and they were quick to holler at Alma. Alma took their woes to the king, Mosiah. And Mosiah had a chinwag with his priests.
Then it came to be that King Mosiah sent out a call across the land that no unbeliever oughta mess with any member of the Lord’s church.
And there was a mighty strict word passed around all the churches that no persecutions should happen ‘mongst them, and that every soul was to be treated equal-like;
That none should let pride or haughtiness rustle their peace; that every feller should count his neighbor as himself, and work hard with his own hands to make a living.
Indeed, all the priests and teachers were to roll up their sleeves and do the same, ‘ceptin’ only when sickness hit or if they were in a heap of trouble; and ‘cause they did this, they were filled with God’s grace.
And then peace started bloommin’ again all over the land; the people grew more numerous than a prairie dog town, and began to spread wide across the earth, north and south, east and west, settlin’ down in big towns and little hamlets all over.
And the Lord came down to check on ‘em and blessed ‘em, making ‘em a large and prosperous people.
Now the sons of Mosiah were part of the unbelievin’ crowd; and one of Alma’s own boys was named Alma too, after his old man; but that rascal turned into a downright wicked and idolatrous fella. He was a man with plenty of words, smooth talkin' to the folks; and because of this, he led a heap of people into his sinful ways.
He became a right nuisance to the church’s prosperity, swayin' folks away, stirrin’ up trouble like a rattler in a corn patch; givin’ the enemy of God a chance to work his mischief on ‘em.
And it came to pass that while he was busy tryin’ to wreck the Lord’s church, he and the sons of Mosiah were sneakin’ ‘round tryin’ to lead the folks astray, goin’ against God's commandments and even the king’s wishes—
And just like I told ya, while they were out actin’ up against God, lo and behold, the angel of the Lord showed up; he came down like a cloud, and his voice roared like thunder, makin' the ground shake beneath ‘em;
And they were so flabbergasted, they hit the dirt and couldn’t make heads or tails of what he was sayin’.
But he hollered again, sayin’: Alma, rise up and step forward, why are you messin’ with the church of God? For the Lord said: This here’s my church, and I aim to set it up; and nothin's gonna knock it down except the sins of my people.
And again, the angel said: Look here, the Lord’s heard the prayers of His folks and also your father Alma’s prayers; he’s been prayin’ real hard about you, hopin’ you’d see the truth; so I’m here to show you the power of God, that folks' prayers can be answered ‘cause of their faith.
And now tell me, can you argue with God’s power? ‘Cause look, doesn’t my voice shake the ground? And can’t you see me standin’ right here? I’m sent from God.
Now listen here: Go and remember how your folks were held captive in Helam and Nephi; recall the great things He done for ‘em; they were stuck in bondage, and He set ‘em free. So now, Alma, go on and quit tryin’ to destroy the church, so their prayers can be answered, even if you end up bein’ cast away yourself.
And so it came to pass that those were the last words the angel spoke to Alma, then he was gone.
Alma and his pals fell down again, ‘cause their astonishment was so mighty; for with their own eyes they’d seen an angel of the Lord, and his voice like thunder shook the ground; they knew right then that nothin’ but the power of God could make the earth tremble like that.
Now Alma’s amazement was so deep he couldn’t even speak; he got weak and couldn’t move his hands; so they had to carry him on over to his father.
They told his father all that had happened, and he was filled with joy, knowin’ it was God’s power at work.
He called for a whole crowd to come together to witness what the Lord had done for his boy, and for those with him.
And he gathered the priests, and they started fastin’ and prayin’ to their God to open Alma’s mouth so he could speak again, and also to give strength back to his limbs—so the people’s eyes could be opened to see and understand God’s goodness and glory.
And after they had fasted and prayed for a couple of days and nights, Alma’s strength came back, and he stood up and started talkin’ to ‘em, tellin' ‘em to take heart:
For, he said, I’ve turned from my sins and been redeemed by the Lord; behold, I’m born of the Spirit.
And the Lord told me: Don’t be surprised that every man, woman, and all nations, kindred, tongues, and peoples gotta be born again; yes indeed, born of God, changin’ from their fallen ways into a righteous state, bein’ redeemed of God, becoming His sons and daughters;
And that’s how they become new folks; and if they don’t do this, they can’t inherit the kingdom of God.
I’m tellin’ ya, unless it’s this way, they’ll be left behind; and I know this ‘cause I was nearly left behind myself.
But after sittin’ through a heap of troubles and repentin’ almost to death, the Lord in His mercy plucked me from the flames, and I've been born of God.
My soul’s been rescued from bitterness and the chains of sin. I was buried deep in darkness; but now I see the wondrous light of God. My soul was tormented every second; but I’ve been saved, and I feel no pain anymore.
I turned my back on my Redeemer, and rejected the words of our ancestors; but now that I see He’s gonna come, and that He remembers every last critter He made, He’ll show Himself to all.
Yep, every knee’s gonna bow, and every tongue’s gonna confess before Him. Even at the final day, when all will stand judged before Him, they’ll shout that He is God; then they’ll admit, those who wandered without Him in the world, that judgment for eternal punishment is just; and they’ll tremble and shake, and shrink beneath the gaze of His watchful eye.
And so it came to be that Alma began teachin’ the folks from then on, along with those who had been with him when the angel showed up, ridin' all over the territory, shoutin’ to everyone what they’d heard and seen, and preachin’ the word of God through a heap of tribulation, gettin' persecuted bad by unbelievers, takin’ hits from many of ‘em.
But even with all that, they brought a good bit of consolation to the church, liftin' their spirits and encouragin’ ‘em with patience and sweat to keep God's commandments.
And four of ‘em were Mosiah’s sons; their names were Ammon, Aaron, Omner, and Himni; these were the names of Mosiah’s boys.
And they roamed all around the land of Zarahemla, and among all the folks under King Mosiah’s reign, workin' hard to mend the damage they had done to the church, confessin’ all their sins, and tellin’ all the things they’d seen, explainin’ the prophecies and scriptures to everyone who wanted to listen.
And so they became tools in God’s hands, bringin’ many folks to understand the truth, yes, to know their Redeemer.
Ain't they blessed! For they did carry the message of peace; they spread good tidings, and told the people that the Lord reigns.
