Well, it turned out that after the sons of Mosiah had finished their business, they rounded up a few pals and rode back to their old man, the king, askin’ him if he’d let ‘em head up to the land of Nephi to preach the good word they’d been hearin’, and share the mighty teachings of God with their kinfolk, the Lamanites.
They figured they might bring those folks round to knowin’ the Lord their God, and show ‘em the wrongs of their folks; and maybe they could mend their hearts, lessen their hatred towards the Nephites, so they could throw a few smiles around and live in harmony without any squabbles spreadin’ across the land that God had given ‘em.
Now, these boys were mighty eager to shout salvation from the rooftops, ‘cause they couldn’t stand the thought of any soul gettin’ lost; just the idea that some poor soul might face eternal torment made ‘em shake like a leaf in a storm.
The Spirit of the Lord was stirrin’ in ‘em, even though they'd been the worst of sinners. But the Lord, in all His mercy, saw fit to give ‘em another chance; even so, their hearts were heavy with the guilt of their wrongs, tormented by fears they could end up cast aside forever.
So it came to pass that they begged their father for many days to let ‘em head up to Nephi.
King Mosiah, in turn, went on and asked the Lord if it was alright for his sons to go preach to the Lamanites.
And the Lord replied to Mosiah: Let ‘em go, ‘cause many will listen and believe their words, givin’ 'em eternal life; I’ll keep your boys safe from harm, even in the hands of the Lamanites.
And so it was that Mosiah allowed their request, givin’ ‘em the go-ahead.
They set off into the wild to preach among the Lamanites; I’ll fill you in on their adventures a bit later.
Now, King Mosiah didn’t have anyone to pass the crown onto, since none of his sons were keen on takin’ up the throne.
So he gathered up the brass plates and the plates of Nephi, collectin’ all the precious records he’d been holdin’ onto, all in line with the Lord’s commandments, includin’ the golden records found by Limhi’s folks, handed over to him by Limhi himself;
He did this 'cause he was mighty worried for the folks; they were thirstin’ to know what happened to those who’d been wiped out.
And so he translated those records with the help of two special stones fitted into a bow.
These stones were prepared long ago, passed down through the ages, meant for decipherin’ languages;
They were preserved by the Lord’s hand, ready to reveal to anyone settlin’ in the land the misdeeds and wrongs of their people;
And whoever had a hold of these stones was called a seer, just like in the olden days.
After Mosiah wrapped up the translate job, lo and behold, it told the tale of the folks who’d been destroyed, all the way back to the building of the grand tower when the Lord scrambled everyone’s language and spread ‘em all over the earth, even all the way back to Adam’s creation.
This account made the people of Mosiah weep, fillin’ their hearts with sorrow; but still, it brought ‘em a good deal of knowledge, and they found joy in that.
And this tale’ll be penned down later on; you see, it’s mighty important for everyone to know what’s written in this story.
Now, just as I mentioned, after King Mosiah wrapped up those tasks, he handed over the brass plates and all the other items he’d been keepin’ to Alma, the son of Alma; yep, all the records, along with the interpreters, and told him to keep ‘em safe, and to write down the deeds of the people, passin’ them along from one generation to the next, just like they’d been passed down since Lehi left Jerusalem.
