King Benjamin rode on with his speech—Salvation’s a gift from the Atonement—Trust in God if you wanna be saved—Keep a clean slate with faithfulness—Share what ya got with the less fortunate—Do everything with smarts and in good order. Round about 124 B.C.
Well now, when King Benjamin wrapped up his talk that he got straight from the angel of the Lord, he looked around at the crowd, and lo and behold, folks were sprawled on the ground, 'cause the fear of the Lord hit 'em hard.
They saw themselves in their own sorry state, lower than the dirt beneath their boots. They all hollered together, saying: O have mercy, and let the blood of Christ wash over us so we can be forgiven for our wrongdoings, and our hearts can be made clean; 'cause we believe in Jesus Christ, the Son of God, who spun up heaven and earth, and all that’s in between; who’ll come down to hobnob with the folks here on earth.
After they got the words out, the Spirit of the Lord washed over 'em, fillin' ‘em with joy 'cause they got their sins wiped clean, and their minds eased, thanks to the mighty faith they had in Jesus Christ who was comin’, just like King Benjamin told 'em.
And then King Benjamin opened his mouth once more and told 'em: Well now, my pals and kinfolk, my fellow townsfolk, I got more words for ya that I reckon you oughta listen to and get a hold of.
For I tell ya, if the goodness of God has ruffled your feathers and made you feel small as a mouse, takin’ stock of your lowly and fallen state—
I reckon if y’all have seen the amazing goodness of God, his unmatched power, his brains, his patience, and his long-suffering for us humans; and also, the Atonement that was laid down since the earth was young, so that salvation could come to those who put their faith in the Lord and keep his commandments till the last breath of their mortal lives—
I say, this here fella will find salvation, 'cause the Atonement was set up for every soul since Adam fell, for all those who’ve been, are now, or ever will be, right up to the last day of this world.
And this is how salvation comes 'round. Ain't no other way to find salvation except what I’ve laid out for ya, nor any conditions under which a feller might be saved other than what I’ve mentioned to y’all.
Have faith in God; believe he exists, and that he made all things, both up in heaven and down here on earth; believe he’s got all the wisdom and power, up in the skies and down on the ground; believe that us humans can’t grasp all the things that the Lord knows.
And again, believe you gotta turn away from your sins and shake 'em off, and bow your heads before God; ask from the bottom of your heart for his forgiveness; and now, if y’all believe all these things, make sure you live 'em out.
And I’ll repeat what I’ve said before, that as you’ve come to grasp the glory of God, or if you’ve experienced his goodness and tasted his love, and had your sins scrubbed clean, which brings an overflow of joy to your soul, I wish for ya to remember, and keep in mind, the greatness of God, and how small you really are, and his goodness and patience towards you, unworthy souls, and humble yourselves even down to the ground, callin’ on the name of the Lord each day, and standin’ firm in the faith of what’s comin’, which the angel said to ya.
And I tell ya, if y’all do this, you’ll be filled with joy, overflowing with the love of God, and always have your sins forgiven; and you’ll grow in the knowledge of the glory of the one who made ya, or in the knowledge of what’s just and true.
And you won’t have a mind to hurt one another, but to live in peace, and to give each man his due.
And you won’t let your young’uns go hungry, or without clothes; nor will you allow ’em to break God’s laws, and fight and bicker amongst themselves, and serve the devil, who’s the master of all sin, or that evil spirit our folks talked about, who’s an enemy to all that’s right.
But you’ll teach ‘em to walk the straight and narrow; teach ‘em to love each other and to lend a hand to one another.
And you’ll take care of those in need; you’ll share from your own pile with folks who need help; and don’t you let the beggar come to you in vain and send him away to starve.
Now, you might think: That feller’s just brought his troubles on himself; so I’ll keep my grub and not share it, let him fend for himself, ‘cause he deserves what he’s gettin'—
But I tell ya, whoever’s got that thought has a heap of repenting to do; and if they don’t turn from what they’ve done, they’ll be lost forever, and have no stake in God’s kingdom.
For I ask you, aren’t we all beggars? Don’t we all lean on the same Being, God, for everything we’ve got, for our food and clothes, and for gold, and silver, and all the treasures we hold?
And I’ll be darned, even right now, you’ve been callin’ on his name, askin’ for a clean slate. And has he let you beg in vain? No siree; he’s poured his Spirit on ya, filled your hearts with joy, and made you so awestruck that you couldn’t even find the words, 'cause the joy was just too much.
And now, if God, the one who made ya, the one you depend on for your lives and everything you are, grants you what you ask for that’s right, with faith that you’ll get it, well then, how ought ya to share what you got with each other?
And if you judge the man who’s askin’ you to help him not starve, and you toss him aside, how much more just will your punishment be for holding back what ain’t truly yours but God’s, and to whom your life also belongs; and still you don’t put up any request, nor repent of what you’ve done?
Woe be to that man, for all he has will rot with him; and now, I’m sayin’ this to the wealthy folks in this here world.
And once more, I speak to the poor, those of you who don’t have much yet scrape by day by day; I mean all of you who don’t help the beggar, 'cause you feel you got nothin'; I hope you say to yourselves: I don’t give 'cause I got nothin’, but if I did, I surely would share.
And if you say this in your hearts, you’re not guilty; but if not, you’re rightly condemned; 'cause you covet what you haven’t received.
And now, considerin’ all these things I’ve been ruminatin’ on with ya—just so y’all can keep a clean slate day in and day out, and walk guilt-free before God—I’d like for you to share what ya got with the needy, everyone according to their means, like feedin’ the hungry, claddin’ the naked, visitin’ the sick and tendin’ to ‘em, both spiritually and temporally, dependin’ on what they need.
And make sure all these things are done with wisdom and in good order; 'cause it ain't right for a feller to run faster than he can manage. And once again, it’s wise to be diligent, so he can win that prize; so, all things must be done in order.
And I’d like you to keep in mind, that whoever borrows from his neighbor should return what he took, just as they agreed, or else you're in sin; and you might just lead your neighbor into sin too.
And finally, I can’t lay out every single way you might trip up; there are countless paths and means, so many I can’t even count 'em all.
But I can tell you this much, if you don’t keep a sharp eye on yourselves, your thoughts, your words, and your actions, and stick to God’s commandments, and continue in the faith of what you’ve heard about the coming of our Lord, right up until the end of your days, you’re bound to be lost. And now, O man, remember, and don’t let yourself fall.
