Well now, if it ain't the truth, let's wrangle these words into some cowboy talk:
Well, it happened that when King Benjamin had talked to his folks, he rode through the crowd, a-askin' if they really believed what he’d been preachin’ to 'em.
And they all shouted in unison, sayin': Sure as shootin', we believe every word you've shared with us; and we know it's solid truth, thanks to the Spirit of the Almighty, who’s stirred up a big ol’ change in our hearts, makin’ us want to do good and steer clear of any mischief.
And we, too, through the boundless goodness of the Good Lord and the feelin’ of His Spirit, got a mighty fine sense of what’s comin’ down the pike; if need be, we could even see into the future.
It’s our faith in the words our king has shared with us that’s led us to this mighty knowledge, fillin’ us with more joy than a cowboy findin’ a long-lost saddle.
We’re ready to make a promise with our God to follow his lead and listen to his commands in all things for the rest of our days, so we don’t bring down upon ourselves some never-endin’ torment, just like that angel warned about, and so we don’t sip from the cup of God’s wrath.
And now, here’s what King Benjamin was hankerin’ to hear from y’all; thus he said: You’ve spoken words I was hopin’ for; and the promise you’ve made is a true and righteous one.
Now ‘cause of the promise you made, you’ll be called the children of Christ, his sons and daughters; for just this day, he’s spiritually birthed ya; since you say your hearts have changed through faith in his name, y’all have been born of him and become his kin.
And under this name, you’re set free, and there ain’t no other way to find that freedom. There’s no other name that brings salvation; so I reckon you all oughta take upon yourselves the name of Christ, everyone who’s made that promise with God and aims to stick with it ‘til the end of your days.
And it’ll come to pass that whoever does this will find themselves sittin’ at God’s right hand, ‘cause he’ll know the name that they carry; they’ll be called by the name of Christ.
Now it’ll also happen that whoever don’t take that name of Christ will be known by some other name; that’ll leave him sittin’ on God’s left hand.
I’m tellin’ ya now, remember that this here is the name I promised to give ya that should never be wiped out, unless ya mess up; so watch yourselves to stay outta trouble, lest that name be lost from your hearts.
I’m sayin’ to ya, keep that name written in your hearts, so you ain’t found sittin’ on God’s left side, but that ya hear and recognize the voice that calls ya, and also the name by which he’ll call ya.
‘Cause how can a fella know the boss he ain’t worked for, who’s a stranger to him, far from what’s chasin’ around in his heart?
And again, does a man take a neighbor’s mule and keep it? I say nope; he won’t even let it graze with his herd, but will drive it off and cast it out. I’m tellin’ ya, that’s how it'll be ‘mongst y’all if ya don’t know the name you’re called by.
So I’m askin’ ya to stand firm and unmovable, always overflowin’ with good deeds, so Christ, the Mighty God, can claim ya for his own, bringin’ ya to heaven for everlasting salvation and eternal life, through the smarts, strength, fairness, and mercy of the one who made all things, up in the sky and down on the ground, who is God above all. Amen.
