Well, it happened after ol’ King Limhi had finished jawin’ with his folks, ‘cause he had a whole heap of things to say, though I’ve only jotted down a smidge in this here book, he told his people all about their kin who were livin’ over in the land of Zarahemla.
Then he signaled for Ammon to step up in front of the crowd and share all the events that had taken place with their kin since Zeniff set off from the land ‘til the time he himself made his way out.
He also recounted the last bits of wisdom that King Benjamin had shared, breakin’ ‘em down for King Limhi’s folks, so they’d understand every word he spat out.
After all that fuss, King Limhi waved off the crowd and sent ‘em all back to their own haunts.
Then he called for the plates that held the record of his people from the time they left Zarahemla, so Ammon could take a gander at ‘em.
As soon as Ammon laid eyes on the record, the king wanted to know if he could make heads or tails of them languages, but Ammon had to tell him he couldn’t.
The king said to him, “Feelin’ real troubled for my folks, I sent a crew of forty-three on a trek into the wild, hopin’ they’d stumble upon Zarahemla, so we could ask our kin to rescue us from this here captivity.”
They got lost out in the wilderness for many a day, but stayed busy, though they never found Zarahemla, just returned to this land after wanderin’ ‘round in a wild place filled with waters, comin’ across a land scattered with the bones of men and critters, and ruins of all sorts of buildings, finding a place once full of folks like a vast army of Israel.
And they brought back twenty-four plates filled with engravings, and they was made of pure gold, as proof that what they said was true.
And they also fetched back some hefty breastplates made of brass and copper, and they was in fine condition.
Then they brought swords too, but the hilts had rotted away, and the blades were all rusted up; no one in the land could make sense of the language or carvings on those plates. So, I turned to you and asked: Can you translate?
I ask you again: Know anyone who can translate? ‘Cause I’m eager for these records to be understood in our lingo; maybe they’ll shed some light on the remnants of the folks who bit the dust, from where these records came; or maybe they’ll tell us about the very people who got wiped out; and I’m mighty curious to know why they went under.
Now Ammon replied to him, “I reckon I can tell you, O king, ‘bout a fella who can translate them records; he’s got the knack to look and translate all sorts of ancient records, and it’s a gift straight from God. They call ‘em interpreters, and no man can peek into ‘em unless he’s told to, lest he peek at somethin’ he oughtn’t and find himself in a heap of trouble. And anyone told to look is called a seer.
And lo, the king of them folks up in Zarahemla is the one who’s been chosen to do all this here work, and he’s got a high gift from God.
The king noted that a seer holds a higher place than a prophet.
Ammon added that a seer is both a revelator and a prophet too; and no man can have a greater gift than if he happens to have the power of God, which no man can; though a man might be granted great power from on high.
But a seer’s got the know-how of past happenings and future events, and through ‘em, all things get revealed, or rather, the secret stuff gets brought out into the sunshine, and hidden things become known, and things that ain’t known get found out by them, and also things get made known that otherwise couldn’t be.
Thus, God’s made a way for man, through faith, to work all sorts of miracles; so it becomes a great boon to his fellow brethren.
And when Ammon wrapped up his talk, the king was mighty pleased and gave thanks to God, sayin’: “No doubt a grand mystery is tucked away in these plates, and those interpreters were surely prepared to unfold all such mysteries to the children of men.”
Ain’t it wonderous, the works of the Lord? And how long he puts up with his people; oh, and how blind and unyielding are the minds of men; they won’t seek wisdom, nor do they want her to take the reins!
Yep, they’re like a wild herd scatterin’ from the shepherd, gettin’ chased and picked off by the beasts in the woods.
