Isaiah, the son of Amoz, had a vision about Judah and Jerusalem.
In the last days, the Lord’s temple will be established on a high mountain, rising above all the hills, and people from every nation will come to it.
Many will say, "Let’s go up to the mountain of the Lord, to the house of the God of Jacob. He will teach us His ways, and we will follow His paths, because the law will come from Zion and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem."
He will judge among the nations and correct many peoples. They will turn their swords into plowshares and their spears into tools for pruning; nations will no longer go to war against each other, nor will they learn how to fight anymore.
O House of Jacob, let us walk in the light of the Lord; come, for you have all strayed, each going down their own evil paths.
Because of this, O Lord, you have abandoned your people, the house of Jacob, because they have become influenced by those from the east, listening to fortune-tellers like the Philistines, and indulging in the children of foreigners.
Their land is filled with silver and gold, and their treasures are never-ending; their land is also filled with horses, and there is no limit to their chariots.
Their land is full of idols; they worship what their own hands have made.
Neither the common person nor the powerful will humble themselves, so do not forgive them.
O wicked ones, hide in the rocks and bury yourselves in the dust, for the fear of the Lord and the splendor of His majesty will strike you.
On that day, the proud looks of man will be humbled, and the arrogance of mankind will be brought low, and only the Lord will be exalted.
The day of the Lord of Hosts is coming upon all nations, upon everyone; upon the proud and haughty, and everyone who is lifted up will be brought down.
The day of the Lord will fall upon all the tall cedars of Lebanon and all the mighty oaks of Bashan;
Upon all the high mountains, and the hills, and every exalted nation and people;
Upon every tall tower and fortified wall;
Upon all the ships at sea, and all the ships of Tarshish, and all attractive images.
The pride of man will be brought low, and the arrogance of men will be humbled; only the Lord will be exalted on that day.
He will completely destroy the idols.
They will hide in the crevices of the rocks and in caves in the earth, for the fear of the Lord will strike them and the glory of His majesty will terrify them when He rises to shake the earth dramatically.
On that day, a man will throw away his silver and gold idols, which he made to worship, to the moles and bats;
To hide in the cracks of the rocks and atop jagged cliffs, for the fear of the Lord will come upon them, and His glorious majesty will terrify them when He rises to shake the earth dramatically.
Stop trusting in man, whose life is just a breath; what is he worth?
