The heavy burden concerning Babylon that Isaiah, the son of Amoz, saw.  
Raise a banner on a tall mountain, shout out to them, wave your hand so they may enter the gates where the nobles are.  
I have appointed my holy ones, and I have also summoned my powerful ones; my anger is not directed at those who celebrate my greatness.  
The sound of many people can be heard in the mountains, like a huge crowd; a chaotic noise comes from the nations gathered together, as the Lord of Hosts gathers the armies for battle.  
They are coming from a distant land, from the farthest reaches of the sky, yes, the Lord and his instruments of wrath, to bring destruction to the entire land.  
Cry out, for the day of the Lord is approaching; it will come as a devastating event from the Almighty.  
As a result, everyone will feel weak, and every person’s heart will melt;  
They will be filled with fear; anguish and misery will seize them; they will be bewildered by one another, and their faces will glow with fear.  
Look, the day of the Lord is coming, cruel, filled with wrath and fierce anger, to make the land desolate; and he will eliminate the sinners from it.  
Because the stars in the heavens and their constellations will not shine; the sun will be darkened when it rises, and the moon will not give its light.  
I will punish the world for its wrongdoing and the wicked for their sins; I will bring an end to the arrogance of the proud and humble the terrible.  
I will make people more valuable than fine gold; even a person will be worth more than the finest gold found in Ophir.  
So, I will shake the heavens, and the earth will be moved from its place, in the wrath of the Lord of Hosts, and on the day of his fierce anger.  
It will be like a hunted deer or a sheep that no one rescues; everyone will retreat to their own people and flee to their own land.  
Anyone who is proud will be killed; and anyone who is allied with the wicked will fall by the sword.  
Their children will be smashed before their eyes; their homes will be looted, and their wives will be taken.  
Look, I will raise up the Medes against them; they will not value silver or gold and won’t take delight in it.  
Their bows will crush young men; they will show no mercy to pregnant women; their eyes will not spare the children.  
And Babylon, the pride of kingdoms and the beauty of the Chaldeans’ glory will be like when God destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah.  
It will never be inhabited again, nor will it be settled from generation to generation; neither will an Arab pitch a tent there, nor will shepherds set up their sheepfolds there.  
But wild animals will lie there; and their homes will be filled with howling creatures; owls will live there, and satyrs will dance there.  
And the wild beasts of the islands will cry in their empty homes, and dragons will be in their lovely palaces; and her time will come quickly; her day will not be extended. For I will destroy her swiftly; indeed, I will be merciful to my people, but the wicked will perish.  
