In the last days, especially during the times of the Gentiles, all nations, including the Gentiles and the Jews, will be overwhelmed by sin and various wicked actions. 
When that time arrives, the Lord of Hosts will come to visit them with thunder, earthquakes, loud noises, storms, tempests, and consuming fires. 
All nations that fight against Zion and cause her troubles will be like a dream encountered at night; it's similar to a hungry person who dreams of eating but wakes up empty, or a thirsty person dreaming of drinking but wakes up weak, still craving something. So shall be the fate of all nations that oppose Mount Zion. 
So listen, all who practice wickedness, be astonished and confused, because you will cry out, and cry; you will feel like you’re drunk, but it won't be from wine, and you will stagger but not from strong drinks. 
For the Lord has caused a deep sleep to come upon you. You've closed your eyes and rejected the prophets; your leaders and seers have been obscured because of your wickedness. 
The Lord God will reveal to you the words of a book, which will have the words of those who have been asleep. 
This book will be sealed, and it will contain a revelation from God that spans the entire history of the world. 
Because of the sealed contents, these words will not be revealed during the times of wickedness and sin. Therefore, the book will remain hidden from them. 
However, the book will be given to a man, who will share the words of the book—words from those who have slept in the dust—with another person. 
But the sealed words will not be shared, and the book itself will not be given, as the book will remain sealed by the power of God, and the revelations contained will stay sealed until the right time determined by the Lord, as they will reveal everything from the beginning of the world to its end. 
The day will come when the unsealed words of the book will be read from rooftops; they will be revealed by the power of Christ, exposing everything that has ever existed among humanity and that will exist until the earth ends. 
So, on that day when the book is given to the man I spoke of, the book will be hidden from the world, seen only by three witnesses chosen by God, in addition to the man it is given to; they will testify of the truth of the book and its contents. 
No one else will view it, except for a few, according to God’s will, to bear testimony of His word to humanity; for God has said the voices of the faithful will speak as if from the dead. 
Therefore, the Lord God will take steps to present the words of the book, establishing His word through as many witnesses as He sees fit; and woe to anyone who rejects God’s word! 
But it will happen that the Lord God will instruct the man receiving the book: Take these unsealed words and give them to another person to show to the learned, saying: Please read this. The learned will respond: Bring me the book, and I will read it. 
However, because of worldly concerns and a desire for profit, they will say this, not for the glory of God. 
The man will answer: I cannot present the book because it is sealed. 
Then the learned will say: I can't read it. 
So, it will happen that the Lord God will again give the book and its words to someone uneducated, and the unlearned person will say: I don't know how to read. 
Then the Lord God will respond: The learned will not read them because they have rejected them, but I can accomplish My own work; therefore, you will read the words that I will provide to you. 
Do not touch the sealed things, for I will reveal them at the appropriate time; I will demonstrate to humanity that I can do My own work. 
So, after you have read the words I commanded you to, and secured the witnesses I promised, you will seal the book again and hide it with me, so I can preserve the words you haven't read until I decide to reveal everything to humanity based on My wisdom. 
For behold, I am God; I am a God of miracles; I will demonstrate to the world that I am the same yesterday, today, and forever; and I only work among people according to their faith. 
Again, it will come to pass that the Lord will speak to the one who will read the words delivered to him: 
Because this people honors me with their words but keeps their hearts far from me, and they learn fear of me only through human teachings— 
Therefore, I will perform a marvelous act among this people, a wonderful display, for the wisdom of their wise and learned will be lost, and the understanding of their shrewd will be hidden. 
Woe to those who try to hide their plans from the Lord! Their deeds are done in darkness, and they say: Who sees us, who knows us? They say: Surely, the changes they make will be viewed as the potter's clay. But behold, God of Hosts will show to men that He knows all their actions. Can the creation say to its creator, You didn’t make me? Or can the crafted thing say to the one who made it, You have no knowledge? 
But behold, says the Lord of Hosts: I will show humanity that it will not be long before Lebanon becomes a fruitful field, and that fruitful field will be viewed as a forest. 
On that day, the deaf will hear the words of the book, and the blind will see out of their darkness and confusion. 
The humble will also grow, their joy will be in the Lord, and the poor among people will rejoice in the Holy One of Israel. 
For as surely as the Lord lives, they will see that the oppressor has been defeated, the scorner destroyed, and all those who seek iniquity cut off; 
Those who make a man guilty for saying a word and trap him for reviving someone in the public square, and those who turn aside the righteous for no reason. 
Therefore, thus says the Lord, who redeemed Abraham, concerning Jacob's house: Jacob will no longer be ashamed, and his face won't turn pale. 
When he sees his children, the work of my hands, among him, they will honor my name, sanctify the Holy One of Jacob, and fear the God of Israel. 
Those who went astray in spirit will gain understanding, and those who complained will learn doctrine.
