Many non-Jewish people will turn away from the Book of Mormon—they will claim that we don’t need any more scripture—they will ignore that the Lord communicates with many nations—and He will judge the world based on the writings that will emerge. About 559-545 B.C.
However, notice that there will be many—on that day when I undertake a wonderful work among them, so that I can fulfill the promises I made to humanity—to reach out again a second time to save my people, who are from the house of Israel;
And also, that I might keep the promises I made to you, Nephi, and your father, that I would remember your descendants; and that the teachings of your descendants will come from my mouth to them; and my words will be declared to the ends of the earth, as a guideline for my people, who are from the house of Israel;
And because my words will be proclaimed—many Gentiles will exclaim: We have a Bible! We have a Bible, and there can't possibly be any more scripture.
But the Lord God says: Oh fools, yes they will have a Bible; and it will come forth from the Jews, my ancient covenant people. And what thanks do the Gentiles give to the Jews for the Bible they receive? Do they even consider the struggles, the hard work, and the sacrifices of the Jews, and their dedication to me, in bringing salvation to the Gentiles?
Oh Gentiles, have you remembered the Jews, my ancient covenant people? No; instead, you have cursed them, and hated them, and have not tried to help them. But watch out, for I will bring all these things back on your own heads; for I, the Lord, have not forgotten my people.
You foolish ones, who say: We have a Bible, and we need no more. Did you receive a Bible unless it was from the Jews?
Do you not realize there are more than one nation? Do you not know that I, the Lord your God, have created all people, and that I keep in mind those on the islands of the sea; and that I reign over the heavens and the earth; and I reveal my word to humanity, even to all the nations on the earth?
Why do you complain because you will receive more of my word? Do you not see that the testimony of two nations serves as evidence that I am God, and that I keep track of one nation just like another? Therefore, I speak the same message to one nation as I do to another. And when these two nations come together, their testimonies will also align.
I do this to show many that I am the same yesterday, today, and forever; and that I share my words as I see fit. And since I have shared one message, do not think that I cannot share another; for my work is not done yet; nor will it be until the end of time, and it will continue forever.
Therefore, just because you have a Bible, do not believe that it contains all my words; and do not think that I have not caused more to be written.
For I command all people, whether in the east or the west, in the north or the south, and in the islands of the sea, that they write down the words I speak to them; for with the writings that will be created, I will judge the world, each individual according to their actions, based on what is recorded.
For truly, I will speak to the Jews and they will write it down; and I will also speak to the Nephites and they will document it; and I will speak to the other tribes of the house of Israel that I have scattered, and they will write it; and I will also communicate with all nations of the earth and they will write it.
It will come to pass that the Jews will have the writings of the Nephites, and the Nephites will possess the writings of the Jews; and the Nephites and the Jews will share the writings of the lost tribes of Israel; and the lost tribes will hold the words of the Nephites and the Jews.
And it will happen that my people, who are from the house of Israel, will return to their rightful lands; and my words will also be united as one. I will show those who oppose my word and my people, who are from the house of Israel, that I am God, and that I made a promise to Abraham to remember his descendants forever.
