Nephi concludes his prophetic messages to his dear brothers. He admits he can only write a few things that he knows will definitely happen, and he cannot include many of the words of his brother Jacob.
Thus, what I have written is enough for me, except for a few remarks I need to make about the teachings of Christ; therefore, I will speak to you clearly, following the straightforwardness of my prophecies.
I find joy in simplicity; this is how the Lord operates among people. The Lord illuminates understanding by communicating with people in ways they can grasp.
So, I want you to recall what I mentioned about the prophet whom the Lord revealed to me, the one who would baptize the Lamb of God, who will remove the sins of the world.
If the holy Lamb of God needed to be baptized with water to fulfill all righteousness, then how much more do we, being imperfect, need to be baptized, even with water!
Now, I would like to ask you, my dear brothers, how did the Lamb of God fulfill all righteousness by being baptized with water?
Don't you understand that he was holy? Even so, despite his holiness, he showed all people that, in his mortal form, he humbled himself before the Father and affirmed his intention to obey Him by keeping His commandments.
Therefore, after he was baptized with water, the Holy Ghost descended upon him in the likeness of a dove.
It also illustrates to people the narrowness of the path and the tightness of the gate through which they must enter, as he set the example for them.
He instructed people to follow him. Thus, my dear brothers, can we follow Jesus if we are not willing to observe the commandments of the Father?
The Father instructed: Repent, repent, and be baptized in the name of my Beloved Son.
Moreover, the voice of the Son spoke to me, saying: Whoever is baptized in my name, the Father will give the Holy Ghost to him, just like me; therefore, follow me and do the things you have seen me do.
So, my dear brothers, I know that if you follow the Son with sincere intent, being completely honest before God, with genuine intentions, repenting of your sins, showing the Father that you are willing to take upon you the name of Christ through baptism—by following your Lord and Savior into the water, as he commanded—then you will receive the Holy Ghost; yes, then you will experience the baptism of fire and of the Holy Ghost; and then you will speak with the tongue of angels and shout praises to the Holy One of Israel.
However, my dear brothers, this was the voice of the Son speaking to me: After you have repented of your sins and declared to the Father that you are willing to keep my commandments through baptism of water, and after receiving the baptism of fire and the Holy Ghost, and are able to speak with a new tongue, even the tongue of angels, if after this you deny me, it would have been better for you not to have known me.
And I heard a voice from the Father say: Yes, the words of my Beloved are true and faithful. Those who endure to the end will be saved.
So now, my dear brothers, I know that unless someone endures to the end while following the example of the living God's Son, he cannot be saved.
Therefore, do what I have seen your Lord and Redeemer do; these things were shown to me so you could know the gate through which you should enter. The gate to enter is repentance and baptism with water; afterwards, a remission of your sins will come through fire and the Holy Ghost.
Then you are on this narrow path that leads to eternal life; yes, you have entered by the gate; you have followed the commandments of the Father and the Son; and you have received the Holy Ghost, which testifies of the Father and the Son, fulfilling the promise that if you enter in this way, you will receive.
Now, my dear brothers, after you have entered this narrow and straight path, I ask if that is all there is to do? Behold, I say to you, No; for you have not come this far except through the word of Christ with unwavering faith in him, completely relying on the merits of him who is powerful to save.
Therefore, you must continue forward with steadfastness in Christ, having a bright hope and love for God and everyone. So, if you persist, focusing on the word of Christ, and endure to the end, behold, the Father says: You will have eternal life.
And now, behold, my dear brothers, this is the pathway; there is no other way or name given under heaven by which man can be saved in the kingdom of God. And now, behold, this is the teaching of Christ, the only true teaching of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost, which is one God, forever. Amen.
