Well now, here’s the tale of them Nephites. Their tussles and rigmaroles, and their squabblin'. And also the foretold words by many holy prophets, before the coming of the big feller, Christ, as noted down by Helaman, who was Helaman’s boy, and also by the scribbles of his kin, all the way down to the big event of Christ’s arrival. And don’t forget, a heap of Lamanites found the light. Here’s the rundown of how they turned around. A tale of the Lamanites getting righteous, and the Nephites gettin' up to all sorts of wickedness and shenanigans, as per Helaman's scribbles and his kin's, all the way to the coming of Christ, which folks call the book of Helaman, and so on.
Pahoran the second steps into the boots of chief judge but gets himself murdered by a feller named Kishkumen—then Pacumeni slides into the judge's chair—Coriantumr, leading them Lamanites, takes over Zarahemla and puts Pacumeni down— Moronihah comes in fierce-like, whips the Lamanites, and takes back Zarahemla, but not before Coriantumr bites the dust. This all goes down ‘round 52-50 B.C.
Now, as the good Lord above would allow, right at the start of the fortieth year of judge reign over the Nephites, troubles started brewin’ big time amongst the folks.
That’s ‘cause Pahoran had passed on, kickin' the dust as all folks do; so folks started squabblin’ fierce-like about who oughta sit in that judge's chair, among Pahoran’s kin.
Now there were a few fellas who went to war for that judge's chair, stirrin’ up the folks too: Pahoran, Paanchi, and Pacumeni.
Now these three ain't the only descendants of Pahoran (he had a whole bunch), but they’s the ones brawlin’ for the judge's seat; hence, they started splitting the folks right down the middle.
Yet, low and behold, folks lifted their voices and declared Pahoran as chief judge and governor over the Nephites.
When Pacumeni saw his shot at the judge's chair was slippin', he joined the crowd cheerin' for Pahoran.
But Paanchi and those lookin’ to put him in charge got hotter than a branding iron; they were fixin' to rustle up a rebellion against their own kin.
And just as he was fixin’ to take action, wouldn’t ya know it, he gets snagged, put on trial by the folks, and sentenced to hang; he sure raised a ruckus and tried to trample on the folks' freedom.
When his supporters found out he was headed for the hangman's noose, they got more than a little riled up, and they sent off a feller named Kishkumen straight to Pahoran’s judgment seat, where he did for Pahoran while he was sittin' there.
Pahoran’s men gave chase, but that Kishkumen was quicker than a jackrabbit and none could catch him.
He hightailed it back to the crew that sent him, and they all swore an oath, hand on heart, in the presence of their Maker, vowing to keep quiet about how Kishkumen took out Pahoran.
So, Kishkumen went on being a ghost among the Nephites, ‘cause he was wearin' a disguise when he pulled that dirty deed. Him and his gang, who'd sworn their oaths, blended right in with the crowd, making it mighty hard to pin 'em down; but those who were caught met their end at the gallows.
Now, Pacumeni got the nod, thanks to the folks, to be chief judge and governor in place of his brother Pahoran; he had every right to that seat. All this went down in the fortieth year of judge reign, and that was that.
Then, in the forty-first year of their judge reign, those pesky Lamanites rounded up an army large enough to block out the sun, armed to the teeth with swords, scimitars, bows, arrows, head-gear, and armor of all sorts.
They come down lookin’ for a scrap against the Nephites. This pack was led by a mighty man named Coriantumr, who hailed from Zarahemla, a fella who turned his back on the Nephites, and he was a big ol' brute too.
Now, the king of the Lamanites, known as Tubaloth, little fit to be outdone, figured Coriantumr's brawn and smarts could help them take on the Nephites, thinking he’d give ‘em the upper hand—
So he poked ‘em all into a frenzy, gathered his troops, named Coriantumr their commander, and set ‘em marching down to Zarahemla for a showdown with the Nephites.
But due to all the fussin' and fumin', they didn’t keep enough eyes on the ground in Zarahemla; they thought them Lamanites weren’t brave enough to waltz into their town and rouse up a fight.
But wouldn’t you know it, Coriantumr comes rambling in with his hoard, and they were movin’ so fast there wasn’t even time for the Nephites to rally their armies.
So, Coriantumr mowed down the guards at the city gate and marched his whole gang right on into the heart of the town, takin’ out anyone who dared to stand against ‘em, until they claimed the whole dang place.
Pacumeni, tryin' to save his skin, hightailed it to the city wall as Coriantumr bore down on him. Coriantumr slams him against the wall, and that was the end of Pacumeni.
Now when Coriantumr realized he had Zarahemla in his grasp, seeing the Nephites scurrying like rats, getting killed and thrown in jail, and that he held the strongest stronghold in the land, his spirits soared like an eagle, and he felt ready to take on the whole territory.
Not one to linger in Zarahemla, he marshaled his hefty troop towards Bountiful; he aimed to carve his way north through the land with his sword.
Thinking their best fighters were holdin’ down the fort in the middle of the land, he pressed on, givin’ ‘em no time to gather in numbers unless they were gatherin' in small bunches; and sure as shootin', they fell on them and cut ‘em down.
But hold the horses, this march of Coriantumr’s got Moronihah grinnin’ ear to ear, even with the Nephites wearing down like old horses.
You see, Moronihah figured them Lamanites wouldn't wade into the heart of the land, but instead would stick to raiding the surrounding towns as they'd always done; so, he had the strong arms set up in the outer territories.
But lo and behold, the Lamanites weren’t spooked at all as Moronihah hoped, instead they charged into the heart of Nephite land, taking down the capital city of Zarahemla and cutting a swathe through the place, slaughtering men, women, and young'uns alike, taking over a heap of towns and hideouts.
But once Moronihah got wind of this tussle, he hurried and sent Lehi with his own force to head 'em off before they reached Bountiful.
So he did just that, intercepting 'em before they made it to Bountiful and threw down a challenge, forcing 'em to turn tail back towards Zarahemla.
And it turned out that Moronihah kept right up on 'em in their retreat, putting up a fierce fight, makin' it a bloody mess; many a body hit the dirt, and even ol’ Coriantumr was found among the fallen.
And now, wouldn’t ya know, them Lamanites were stuck with nowhere to run, neither north nor south, nor east nor west, ‘cause the Nephites had ‘em surrounded like a pack of wolves.
Thus was Coriantumr’s blunder, shoving the Lamanites right in the thick of the Nephites, where they found themselves at the mercy of the Nephites, and he wound up getting snuffed out, and the Lamanites gave themselves over to the Nephites.
Then, Moronihah took back the city of Zarahemla and made sure the captured Lamanites could head outta the land in peace.
And that’s how the forty-first year of judge rule came to a close.
