Well now, back when things got a bit riled up among the folks, they scattered like leaves in a windstorm, leavin’ poor Nephi all by his lonesome while he stood in their midst.
So there was Nephi, makin’ his way back home, thinkin’ over all the things the Good Lord had shown him.
As he was deep in thought, feelin’ mighty low about the wicked shenanigans of the Nephites—their sneaky deeds under the cover of darkness, their bloodshed, their thievin’, and all sorts of evil doins—wouldn't ya know it, a voice rang out like a bell in the still of night, sayin’:
“Blessed are ya, Nephi, for what you've done. I’ve seen how hard you’ve worked to share the Good Word I gave ya with these folks. You ain’t feared ‘em, nor worried ‘bout your own neck, but have chased my desires and kept my commandments.”
“Now listen here, ‘cause you’ve shown such grit and determination, I’m fixin’ to bless you always. I’m gonna make you mighty in words and deeds, in faith and action; everything you say will happen, ‘cause you won’t be askin’ for anything that goes against my will.”
“Looky here, you’re Nephi, and I’m God, sure as shootin’. I’m tellin’ ya right here in front of my angels, you’ll have power over this crowd, and you’ll strike the land with famines, plagues, and destruction, just like the wickedness of these folks deserves.”
“I’m givin’ you the authority, so whatever you seal on earth will be sealed up in heaven; and what you loose down here will be loosed up there, and you’ll have sway over your people.”
“And if you say this temple’s gonna be split right in two, you can bet your boots it’ll happen.”
“And if you tell that mountain to be tossed down and turned flat, it’ll get done.”
“Also, if you say the Lord will strike this people, it’s a guarantee it’ll come to pass.”
“Now I’m givin’ you a command, go and share with this crew what the Lord God, the Almighty says: Unless you shape up and repent, you’re gonna be struck down to ruin.”
Well wouldn’t ya know, when the Lord laid those words on Nephi, he didn’t just trot on back home; instead, he turned around and headed back to the folks spread out on the land, startin’ to share the Lord’s word with ‘em about the doom that lay ahead if they didn’t turn from their wicked ways.
Now you see, even though Nephi had pulled off a mighty miracle by tellin' ‘em about the chief judge’s death, their hearts turned hard as a rock and they wouldn’t listen to the Lord’s voice.
So Nephi stood firm, sayin’ to ‘em: “Unless you repent, the Lord says you’re gonna get struck down to ruin.”
After Nephi laid down the law, those folks still just dug their heels in and refused to listen; they spoke ill of him and tried to grab him up to toss him into jail.
But lo and behold, the Lord’s power was restin' on Nephi, and they couldn’t lay a finger on him to haul him off, ‘cause he was whisked away by the Spirit right outta their sight.
And so it was that Nephi roamed on in the Spirit, movin' from one crowd to another, spreadin’ the Good Word of God ‘til he’d let ‘em all know, or scattered it amongst all the people.
And it came to pass that they still wouldn’t listen; fights broke out, and they started turnin’ on each other, swords flashin’ everywhere.
And just like that, the seventy-first year of the judges’ reign over the Nephites came to a close.
