Well now, it was the seventy-second year of them judges sittin’ in power, and let me tell ya, folks were more riled up than a herd of cattle in a thunderstorm, havin’ wars all over the place among the folks of Nephi.
An’ don’t forget that sneaky gang of robbers causin’ all the commotion and trouble. That war went on the whole darn year, and in the seventy-third year, it was still goin’ strong.
Then it was in that year Nephi raised his voice to the Lord sayin’:
"Now listen up, Lord, don’t let this here people be wiped out by swords. How ‘bout lettin’ a famine sweep through the land to jolt ‘em into rememberin’ you, their God? Maybe then they’ll come to their senses and turn back to you."
And sure enough, the Lord took Nephi’s words to heart. There was a fierce famine that hit the land, lettin’ all the folks of Nephi know what hard times felt like. So in the seventy-fourth year, the famine kept on goin’, and those sword fights stopped, replaced by hunger pains.
In the seventy-fifth year, the troubles rolled on. The ground was so parched and dry, it couldn't grow any crops when the season came, and all folks suffered, even the Lamanites, leading to a heap of ‘em perishing in their wicked parts of the land.
Well, the people finally noticed they were fixin’ to starve, and they started to remember their Lord, thinkin’ back on Nephi’s words.
So they went a-beggin’ their chief judges and leaders, askin’ ‘em to tell Nephi: “Listen here, we know you’re a man of God, so you got to plead with the Lord for us to end this famine, ‘cause we don’t want all those doom-and-gloom words you said about our destruction to come true.”
The judges heard ‘em out and took those words to Nephi. When Nephi figured out the folks had turned from their proud ways and were wearin’ sackcloth to show their humility, he cried out again to the Lord, sayin’:
“Lord, look at this people—they’re changin’ their hearts; they’ve sent them Gadianton bandits packin’, and hid their sneaky schemes in the ground.”
“Now, O Lord, cause your wrath to simmer down, and let your anger go away from those wicked souls you’ve already dealt with.”
“O Lord, turn away that fierce anger, and let this famine be a thing of the past in our land.”
“O Lord, hear me out and make sure it all goes down just like I’m askin’. Send some rain to bless the earth so she can bear fruit and grain in season.”
“O Lord, you listened before when I asked for a famine to halt the sword fights, and I know you’ll be all ears again, ‘cause you promised that if these folks repent, you’d look out for ‘em.”
“Yep, O Lord, you see they’re turnin’ back, all thanks to the famine and the pestilence and devastation that’s come their way.”
“Now, O Lord, will you cool off the anger and give ‘em another chance to serve you? And if they do, bless ‘em like you said you would.”
In the seventy-sixth year, the Lord heard their cries, let loose the rains, and the land sprung back to life, bringing forth fruit and grain in due time.
Then the people were happier than a lark, givin’ praise to God, and joy filled every nook and cranny of the land. They stopped their plans to take down Nephi and started to see him as a true prophet with God’s power and authority.
And wouldn’t you know it, Lehi, Nephi’s brother, was just as righteous as him.
So it happened that the Nephites began to thrive once more, rebuildin’ their towns, multiplyin’, and spreadin’ themselves ‘til they covered good ol’ Nephi’s land, from the western sea to the eastern sea.
And the seventy-sixth year wrapped up with a peaceful close, and the seventy-seventh year kicked off on the same note. The church expanded all over the land, and most folks, Nephites and Lamanites alike, were part of it, enjoyin’ mighty fine peace throughout the land, puttin’ a close to the seventy-seventh year.
They carried peace into the seventy-eighth year, ‘cept for a few rumbles over some doctrinal debates put forth by the prophets. 
Then in the seventy-ninth year, strife broke out again. But Nephi, Lehi, and their brethren who knew the real deal about doctrine, keepin’ busy with daily revelations, took it upon themselves to preach to the people, settlin’ the disputes right in that same year.
Come the eightieth year of the judges’ reign over the Nephites, some dissenters who’d sided with the Lamanites a spell back came back stirrin’ the pot, takin’ on the title of Lamanites. This got them and some genuine Lamanites all riled up, and they started a war with their own kin.
These folks committed murder and theft then would skedaddle back to the mountains and wilderness, hidin’ themselves so tight nobody could find ‘em, and their numbers kept growin' with new recruits who joined from among the dissenters.
Pretty soon, in no time at all, they turned into a sizable pack of robbers, sniffin’ out all them secret plans of Gadianton, thus turnin’ into a full-fledged band of Gadianton robbers.
Now these robbers went about causing all kinds of havoc and destruction for the Nephites and Lamanites alike.
Well, it was high time to put a halt to their rampage. So they sent a rugged army out into the mountains and wild, lookin’ for those robbers to bring ‘em down.
But as luck would have it, that same year they found themselves pushed back to their own turf. And thus ended the eightieth year of the judges’ reign over Nephi.
Then, in the start of the eighty-first year, they went after those robbers once more and took out many, but they sure brought about some destruction, too.
But they had to skedaddle back from the wilderness and mountains to their own homesteads, ‘cause those robbers were a big, wild horde lurkin’ in the hills and hollers.
This year wrapped up as well, but the robbers just kept gettin’ bigger and bolder, givin’ the Nephites and the Lamanites a real scare all over the land.
Sure enough, they roamed around, creatin’ mischief, takin’ lives, and carryin’ off many captives into the wild, especially the women and children.
Now this great evil that came upon the folk ‘cause of their wrongdoings made ‘em remember the Lord their God again.
And that’s how the eighty-first year of the judges wrapped up.
In the eighty-second year, they started to forget their God again. By the eighty-third year, they were headin’ back down the road of wickedness. By the eighty-fourth year, they were still strayin’ far from the right track. 
Then in the eighty-fifth year, they got stronger still in their pride and wrongdoings, ripening for another round of destruction.
And thus the eighty-fifth year came to an end.
