Fellers sure are fickle and foolish, quick to go astray—The Lord keeps a tight leash on His folks—The worthlessness of humankind’s nothingness stands in stark contrast to the might of the Almighty—Come judgment day, folks will either find everlasting life or be damned to perdition. 'Bout 6 B.C.
Now, take a gander, you can see how false and wobbly the hearts of folks can be; sure enough, the Lord, in His boundless kindness, blesses and prospers them that put their trust in Him.
Yup, we see that just when He’s showerin’ His people with good fortune, like when their fields, flocks, and herds grow, and when they strike gold and silver, and all sorts of shiny things; He keeps ‘em alive and safe from their foes, turnin’ the hearts of enemies so they don’t want no trouble; in short, He’s workin’ for the good and happiness of His folks; yet, during them times, they harden their hearts, forget the Lord their God, and stomp on the Holy One—yep, all ‘cause they get lazy and fattened up with prosperity.
And so it goes, that ‘less the Lord shakes things up with a heap of hardships, death, scare, famine, and all kinds of plagues, those folks won’t remember Him.
Oh, how dang foolish, vain, rotten, devilish, and quick to do bad things the children of men are; quick as a whip to listen to the evil one and set their hearts on the empty trinkets of this world!
You bet, how quick they are to swell up with pride; quick to brag and do all sorts of wrongdoing; yet they sure are slow to remember the Lord their God and listen to His wise words, slow to walk the path of wisdom!
Well, take a look, they don’t want the Lord, their Creator, to steer their ship; in spite of His great kindness and mercy, they scoff at His advice and refuse to let Him be their guide.
Oh, how pitiful is the nothingness of mankind; they’re even less than the dust underfoot.
'Cause you see, that dust moves this way and that, bein’ pulled apart at the command of our great eternal God.
Yup, listen close, at His call, the hills and mountains shake like a rattlesnake.
And with the power of His voice, they’re shattered and polished smooth, like a valley floor.
Yup, by His mighty voice, the whole earth trembles;
Yup, by His voice, the very foundations shake, all the way to the core.
And if He tells the earth—Shake it off—it promptly moves.
And if He commands the earth—You’ll go back, stretchin’ out the day for a spell—it happens lickety-split;
Just like that, by His word, the earth goes back, and it looks to folks like the sun’s stuck in place; truth be told, it’s the earth that’s movin’ and not the sun.
And listen up, if He says to the waters of the deep—Dry up—it’s done, plain as day.
If He commands this mountain—Raise up and come crashing down on that town, bury it whole—it’s a done deal.
And if one hides a treasure in the ground, and the Lord says—Let it be cursed for the misdeeds of its keeper—well, you bet it’s gonna be cursed.
And if the Lord utters—Be cursed, so no man lays eyes on you from now on—no one’ll ever lay claim to it again.
And if He says to a man—Your wrongdoings are gonna curse you forever—it’ll be just so.
If the Lord says—Your sins will cut you off from my presence—He’ll make darn sure it happens.
And woe betide the one who hears this, ‘cause it’ll be for them that choose to do wrong, and they won’t find salvation; hence, for the sake of saving men, repentance is offered up.
So, blessed are they who turn their ways and listen to the voice of the Lord their God; for these are the ones who’ll find salvation.
And may God, in His mighty grace, help folks find their way to repentance and good deeds, and restore ‘em to grace, for grace, in line with their works.
I only wish that all men might find salvation. But we know that come that final day, some will be turned away, cast off from the Lord's presence;
And those folks will be sent to a place of endless woe, fulfillin’ the words that say: Those who do good will have everlasting life; those who do bad will face everlasting damnation. And that’s just how it is. Amen.
