Well now, it so happened that Samuel, the Lamanite, did go on and prophecy a heap more stories that ain't been penned down.
And listen close, he said to ‘em: I’m throwin’ down a sign; for five years more roll on by, and then comes the Son of God to save all y’all who reckon on his name.
And lo, here’s the sign I’m servin’ up for when he shows up; reckon there’ll be mighty bright lights up in the sky, so much so that the night before he arrives won’t be dark at all, makin’ it seem like daylight to folks on the ground.
So it’ll be one day and a night and a day, like one long day without a speck of night; and this’ll be a sign for y’all; you’ll know when the sun’s risin’ and also when it’s settin’; so you can be certain that there’s two days and a night comin’, but the night won’t be black as coal; this’ll all take place the night before his birth.
And don't miss this: a new star will appear, one you ain't never laid eyes on before; and that’ll be another sign for ya.
And I ain't done yet, there'll be all kinds of signs and wonders up there in the heavens.
And when that time comes, you’ll be flabbergasted and full of wonder, so much that you'll just about hit the dirt.
And it’ll happen that whosoever places their bets on the Son of God will get themselves everlasting life.
And lo, the Lord hit me with a command through his angel, tellin’ me to come and spill the beans to you; yeah, he said I gotta prophecy this here stuff to you; and he told me to bellyache to this crowd, repent and pave a path for the Lord.
Now, seein’ as I’m a Lamanite, and I’ve laid down for you what the Lord commanded, and since it’s tough on your ears, y’all are gettin' mighty riled up with me, tryin' to throw me out into the wild.
But I’ll make sure you hear my words, ‘cause that’s why I climbed up here on these city walls, so you could catch wind of the judgments comin' from God that are waitin’ on you because of your wrongdoings, and also to fill you in on what repentance’s about;
And also to let you know about the arrival of Jesus Christ, the Son of God, the Big Boss of heaven and earth, the one who made all things from the get-go; and to clue you in on the signs of his arrival, so you might just put your faith in his name.
And if you put your faith in his name, you’ll turn away from all your sins, so you can get a clean slate thanks to his goodness.
And behold, here’s another sign I’m givin’ ya, yessiree, a sign of his death.
’Cause don’t you know, he gotta die for folks to find salvation; it’s reckonable and necessary for him to kick the bucket, so that the dead can rise again, and folks can stand before the Lord.
Indeed, this death will bring about resurrection, savin’ all of mankind from that first death—spiritual death; seein’ as all mankind got cut off from the boss man’s presence ‘cause of Adam’s fall, they’re considered dead, both in this world and the next.
But don’t you worry, the resurrection of Christ brings all folks back to life, yeah, everyone, and gets ‘em back in front of the Lord.
And it creates the chance for repentance, so if you repent you won't get chopped down and tossed into the flames; but if you don’t repent, you’re gonna be hewn down and thrown into the fire; and that’ll lead you back to a spiritual death, a second death, ‘cause they get cut off again when it comes to what’s right and just.
So I’m tellin’ ya, repent, repent, or else by knowin’ this stuff and not doin’ it you’ll end up takin’ on condemnation, and you'll find yourself fallin’ to this second death.
But you see, just like I was sayin’ about that sign of his death, mark my words, on the day he meets his end, the sun’s gonna lose its shine and won’t light nothin’ up for ya; and the moon and stars too; and there won’t be a glimmer of light on this land, not from the moment he dies and lasts three long days ‘til he comes back to life.
Yeah, when he takes his last breath there will be thunder and lightning for hours on end, and the ground will shake and quiver; and the rocks up above and down below will be busted apart;
They’ll be split down the middle, and forever after, they’ll be found in cracks, seams, and fragments scattered all over the earth, both above and beneath.
And lo, there’ll be fierce storms, and many a mountain will hit the dirt, turnin’ into valleys, while many places that’s called valleys will rise up into mountains, all tall and mighty.
And lots of roads will be torn asunder, and many towns will become ghost towns.
Graves will pop open and let loose many of the dead; and a whole bunch of saints will show up to many folks.
And behold, the angel laid it out for me; said there’d be thunder and lightning for hours on end.
And he let me know that while the sky’s rumblin’ and lightin’ is ferocious, the darkness will cover the whole earth for three days straight.
And the angel told me many will witness grander things than these, so they might just believe that these signs and wonders will come to pass all across the land, so folks won’t find reason to doubt among men—
And this is so that whoever believes can find salvation, while those who choose not to believe will end up havin’ righteous judgment come down on ‘em; and if they get condemned, they’ve done it to themselves.
And now, don’t forget, don’t forget, my brothers, that whoever perishes, does so to their own selves; and whoever does wrong, does it to their own selves; 'cause y’all are free; you can act on your own; because God’s given you knowledge and set you free.
He's given you the means to know the good from the bad, and he’s let you pick between life and death; you can do good and be restored to what’s good, or hold on to what’s bad and have that come back at ya.
