The Good Lord sure put the reins to the Nephites ‘cause He had a heap of love for ‘em—Now, them Lamanites that turned to the straight and narrow are like sturdy oak trees in the wind—The Lord’s gonna show kindness to them Lamanites in the days to come. ‘Round 6 B.C.
Now, listen up, my dear kinfolk, I’m tellin’ ya straight that if you don’t turn your ways, your homesteads are gonna be left empty and desolate.
Yep, if you don’t wise up, your gals are gonna have plenty of heartache when they’re nursing young’uns; they’ll try to skedaddle, but won’t find no safe place to hightail it to; and woe to the ones carryin’ young’uns, ‘cause they’ll be weighed down and can’t run; so they’ll be trampled and left to meet their maker.
I reckon it's a mighty sad day for this bunch called the folks of Nephi, unless they turn their ways around, when they see all them signs and miracles comin’ their way; ‘cause lemme tell ya, they’ve been a chosen crew by the Good Lord; that’s right, the Nephites have His love but He’s had to whip ‘em into shape, sure as shootin’, in times of their wickedness ‘cause He cares for ‘em.
But now, my pals, the Lamanites He’s had it in for, ‘cause their ways have been rotten all the livelong day, and that’s thanks to the bad apple traditions of their forebears. But wait a minute, salvation’s come to ‘em through the preachin’ of the Nephites; and that’s why the Lord’s let ‘em stick around for a spell longer.
I want you to see that most of ‘em are walkin’ the right path, bein’ careful ‘fore the Lord, and they’re takin’ to keepin’ His laws and commands just like Moses laid down.
Yep, I tell ya, most of ‘em are doin’ just that, workin’ real hard to bring back the rest of their kin to the good word of truth; that’s why plenty are joinin’ their ranks on the daily.
And you got eyes to see, ‘cause you’ve seen it with your own two: as many as are brought into the truth and wise up to the wicked ways of their forefathers, bein’ led to trust in the holy scriptures and the prophecies of those holy prophets, will find their faith in the Lord and turnin’ away from their sins, which faith and repentance brings a right change in their hearts—
So, as many as have come to this, you know they’re solid and strong in their beliefs and in the freedom they’ve been granted.
And you also know they’ve laid down their weapons of war, afraid to pick ‘em up, worried they might stray; you can see they’re scared to sin—for they’ll let themselves get stomped and taken out by their foes rather than lift a sword against ‘em, and that’s all ‘cause of their faith in Christ.
And now, ‘cause they stand firm in their beliefs, for as long as they hold true to what they know, check it out, the Lord’s gonna bless ‘em and give ‘em more days, despite their failings—
Even if they start slippin’ into doubt, the Lord’s gonna let ‘em linger on ‘til the time comes which has been foretold by our ancestors and also by the prophet Zenos, and plenty others, ‘bout bringin’ back our kin, the Lamanites, to the light of truth—
Yep, I’m tellin’ ya, in them later days, the Lord’s promises have been laid out for our kin, the Lamanites; and even though they’ll face many a hardship, bein’ tossed ‘round like tumbleweeds and hunted down, gettin’ hit and scattered about, with no safe place to land, the Lord will show ‘em mercy.
And this here’s just as the prophecy said, that they’ll be brought back to the real truth, which is knowin’ their Redeemer, their good and true shepherd, and’ll be counted among His flock.
So I’m sayin’ to ya, it’ll be better for ‘em than for you if you don’t change your ways.
‘Cause listen close, had them mighty works been shown to ‘em that y’all’ve seen, yep, the ones who’ve wandered off ‘cause of their folks’ old ways, you can see it clear as day that they wouldn’t’ve wandered off again.
So the Lord says: I won’t wipe ‘em off the map completely, but come the day of my wisdom, they’ll turn back to me, says the Lord.
And now listen up, says the Lord, about the Nephites: If they don’t turn around and do my will, I’ll wipe ‘em out, says the Lord, ‘cause of their lack of faith, despite all the mighty works I’ve done among 'em; and as sure as the Lord lives, this here’s the truth, says the Lord.
