Well now, gather 'round and let me spin you a yarn ‘bout them Nephites who took to heart what Samuel the Lamanite had to say, and how Nephi got ‘em dunked in the water. This tale of trouble starts in the year ‘round 6 to 1 B.C.
It turned out that plenty of folks heard Samuel shouting his words from atop them city walls. Those who believed him saddled up and rode out lookin’ for Nephi; once they caught up with him, they laid bare their wrongdoings and didn’t hold back, hopin’ to get baptized by the Lord.
But oh, the ones who didn’t buy what Samuel was sellin’ were madder than a hornet’s nest; they pelted him with rocks from the wall and let loose arrows as he stood up there, but bless his heart, the Spirit of the Lord was on his side, 'cause none of them stones or arrows landed true.
Once they realized their aim was as good as a blindfolded shot in a saloon, a heap more folks decided Samuel was onto somethin’, and they made tracks to see Nephi for baptism.
Now, Nephi was busy dunkin' folks, prophesyin', and preachin' like a firebrand, hollerin' for folks to repent, showin’ off signs and marvels to prove that the Christ was fixin' to show up real soon—
He was spillin' the beans on things comin' down the pike, so folks could recall when the time rolled around that they'd already heard of it, hopin' it would stir 'em to believe. So those who caught wind of Samuel's words took off to find him, comin’ clean and repentant.
But most folks didn’t buy into Samuel’s preachin’. So when they figured out their rocks and arrows couldn’t touch him, they started hollerin’ to their bosses: “Grab this fella and tie him up, ‘cause he must be possessed—ain't no way we can hit him with our stones or arrows; just grab him and toss him outta here.”
And as they all charged in to grab him, he took a flying leap off that wall and skedaddled on back to his own neck of the woods, where he started preachin' and prophesyin' to his own kinfolk.
As luck would have it, they never laid eyes on him again among the Nephites; that’s just how things went for the people.
And that there wraps up the eighty-sixth year of them judges sittin' over the Nephites.
Then followed the eighty-seventh year of them judges, where most folks just stayed full of pride and wickedness while a smaller bunch acted a little more carefully ‘fore the Lord.
And them conditions didn’t change much in the eighty-eighth year of these judges.
A little shift did happen, though, as folks got more stubborn in their wicked ways, doin' even more of what goes against the good Lord's commandments during the eighty-ninth year.
But fast forward to the ninetieth year of the judges, and all sorts of signs and wonders came rollin' in for the folks, and them prophet's words started to come true.
Angels showed up to wise folks and brought ‘em good news that was worth a hoot; so in this here year, the scriptures stepped to life.
Still, the crew began hardenin' their hearts, ‘cept for the truest believers among ‘em, both Nephites and Lamanites, leanin' on their own strength and smarts, murmur’n:
“Maybe they hit the nail on the head here and there, but lookit here, we know that all these grand miracles can't possibly happen as they say.”
And they started bendin’ their minds and arguing with one another, sayin':
“It don’t make sense that a Christ would come ‘round. If he’s the Son of God, the Father of heaven and earth like they spill, why ain’t he showin' himself to us just like he is to them in Jerusalem?”
“Why ain't he showin' up on our turf same as in Jerusalem?”
But hold on, they figured they had it all sussed out, thinkin' this here was a rotten tale handed down by their folks to keep ‘em waitin' for some grand thing to happen far away, in a land they don’t even know; that way, it kept ‘em blind as bats, ‘cause they couldn’t see it for themselves.
And the crafty devil was workin’ up some big mysterious tricks they couldn’t get their heads around, keepin’ 'em down like lowly servants to their words and takin' to heart that they'd need ‘em to learn what’s what; thus, they’d stay in the dark if they let that happen for the rest of their days.
They were thinkin' up all sorts of nothin’ in their hearts, foolish and vain; trouble was stirrin’, ‘cause ol’ Satan was pushin' 'em to do wrong all the time, spreadin' rumors and ruckus ‘cross the land to harden folks’ hearts ‘gainst the good and what was supposed to come.
And even with all the signs and wonders bein’ done by the good folks of the Lord, and all them miracles, Satan got a fierce hold on the hearts of the people all over the land.
And that wraps up the ninetieth year of the judges sittin' over the Nephites.
And that's how the book of Helaman comes to a close, as told by Helaman and his kin.
