Helaman, the young'un of Helaman, took the reins as the top judge—Gadianton, that no-good varmint, was leading the gang of Kishkumen—Helaman’s helper put an end to Kishkumen’s shenanigans, and the Gadianton gang skedaddled into the wild.
Well, it was the forty-second year of the judges' rule, after Moronihah had smoothed things over ‘tween the Nephites and the Lamanites, and wouldn't you know it, there was nobody sittin’ in the judgment seat; this stirred up some arguments ‘mongst the folks about who should take the job.
Then Helaman, the son of Helaman, was chosen by the folks to take that judgment seat, just like a cowboy is elected sheriff.
But hold your horses, Kishkumen, who had already done in Pahoran, was layin’ low to finish off Helaman too; and he had himself a gang that promised not to spill the beans on his wicked ways.
Now there was this feller named Gadianton, who was slick with words and even slicker at pullin’ off secret jobs like murder and thievery; so, he wormed his way to the top of Kishkumen’s crew.
So he sweet-talked them and Kishkumen too, sayin’ if they put him in that judgment seat, he’d make sure his gang got to hold the reins of power; and that lit a fire under Kishkumen to finish off Helaman.
And it came to pass that as Kishkumen was makin’ his way to the judgment seat to deliver his dirty work, one of Helaman’s helpers, who had been out at night and got the lowdown on their plans by hidin’ his face, ran into Kishkumen—
And that helper gave Kishkumen a secret sign; so Kishkumen laid out his plans, wantin’ this feller to help him get to the judgment seat to take care of Helaman.
Once the helper knew all of Kishkumen’s dark intentions—how he aimed to murder and how all his cronies were in on it too, lookin’ to rob and seize power (that was their sneaky plan, a real nasty bunch)—the helper said to Kishkumen: Let’s roll on over to the judgment seat.
Well, this tickled Kishkumen to no end, thinkin’ he’d get his way; but lo and behold, as they headed toward the judgment seat, Helaman’s servant plunged a blade right into Kishkumen’s heart, and he dropped dead without even a whimper. Then the servant galloped off and told Helaman all that he’d seen, heard, and done.
So Helaman figured he’d send out the law to round up that band of robbers and sneaky killers, and make ‘em pay for their crimes.
But when Gadianton noticed Kishkumen wasn’t comin’ back, he got mighty nervous, thinkin’ it was his turn to bite the dust; so he gathered up his gang and they took off in a secret way into the wild; when Helaman sent out the posse, they were nowhere to be found.
And there’s more to speak of this Gadianton down the trail. And that wrapped up the forty-second year of the judges rul’n over the Nephites.
And let me tell ya, by the end of this here book you’ll see that this Gadianton turned out to be the ruin, yup, nearly the whole undoing of the Nephites.
Now I ain't talkin’ about the end of the book of Helaman, but rather the wrap-up of the book of Nephi, from which I done pulled all these tales I’ve shared.
