In the fifty-fourth year, there was quite a ruckus settin' off in the church, and folks were at each other's throats, leading to a heap of bloodshed.  
Them feisty dissidents got themselves gunned down and chased right outta town, and they hightailed it to the Lamanite king.
Well, they tried to rile up the Lamanites into war against the Nephites, but lo and behold, the Lamanites were too chicken to listen to the talkin' of those rebels.
Now, in the fifty-sixth year of judge rulings, a patch of dissenters headed up from Nephite land to the Lamanites; they got those Lamanites worked up against the Nephites, and all year long they were fixin' for a scrap.
Come the fifty-seventh year, they rode down to take on the Nephites, and it was a mighty messy affair; by the fifty-eighth year of judges, they managed to grab hold of Zarahemla and all the lands stretchin' near ol' Bountiful.
The Nephites and Moronihah's folks got driven right on into Bountiful.
They set up their defenses against the Lamanites, stretchin' from the west sea to the east; it was about a day's ride for a Nephite along the line where they fortified their positions to guard their northern stretch.
So, those Nephite dissenters, with a whole passel of Lamanite support, took claim of everything the Nephites had down south. All this went down in the fifty-eighth and ninth years of judges' reign.
Then in the sixtieth year of judges, Moronihah and his crew managed to snag back a good bit of land; they got back several towns that had fallen to the Lamanites.
And in the sixty-first year of judges, they were able to reclaim about half of all their belongings.
Now, this here big ol' loss for the Nephites, and all that bloodshed, wouldn't have been a thing if it weren't for their wicked ways and shameful actions among 'em; and this included those who claimed to be part of God's church.
Turns out, it was all because of their prideful hearts, all that wealth they were hoarding, and how they oppressed the less fortunate, turnin' away the hungry and leavin' the naked bare, givin' a wallop to their humble kin, makin' a mockery of sacred things, denyin' God’s spirit of prophecy and revelation, and all manner of murderin', thievin', and cheating, while stirrin' up trouble and runnin' off to Nephi among the Lamanites—
And 'cause of this prodigious wickedness, all their boastin' in their own power, they found themselves left to their own devices; they didn't thrive, but rather were afflicted, struck down, and driven before the Lamanites 'til they'd lost nearly all their lands.
But Moronihah took to preachin' all sorts of truths to the people 'bout their sins, and Nephi and Lehi, sons of Helaman, preached to 'em too, lettin' 'em know what’d come if they didn’t mend their ways.
So it came to pass that they did turn back to the good path, and as they repented, they began to find prosperity again.
When Moronihah saw they were ready to change, he took a chance and led 'em from place to place, city to city, until they had rounded up half of their lost property and lands.
And just like that, the sixty-first year of judges came to a close.
Now in the sixty-second year of judges, Moronihah couldn’t muster any more land from the Lamanites.
So they decided to hang up their guns on takin' back any more land since the Lamanites were just too numerous for the Nephites to get a leg up; thus, Moronihah put all his forces into holdin' onto what he had.
And due to the sheer size of the Lamanite numbers, the Nephites were scared silly, fearin' they might be overwhelmed, stomped, and wiped out.
They started rememberin' the prophecies of Alma and the words of Mosiah; they realized they had been a stubborn bunch and had ignored God's commandments.
And they could see how they had twisted and trampled over the laws Mosiah was given to share with the folks; they recognized their laws had gone south, and they had become as wicked as the Lamanites.
So, on account of their wickedness, the church started to fall apart; they began to doubt the spirit of prophecy and revelation, and God’s judgments were facing them down.
They saw they had grown weak like their Lamanite cousins, and that the Spirit of the Lord no longer shielded 'em; it had pulled away because the Spirit just don’t hang out in unholy places—
So the Lord stopped protectin' 'em with His miraculous power, for they had slipped into disbelief and dreadful wickedness; and they saw the Lamanites were a whole lot more numerous than them, and unless they clung tight to the Lord their God, they were sure to perish.
For they recognized the Lamanite strength was just as formidable as their own, man-for-man. And so, they found themselves in this mighty mess, thus they grown weak due to their own transgressions, all in just a matter of a few years.
