Well now, it just so happened that in that same year, Nephi handed over the reins of power to a fella named Cezoram.
See, their laws and governin' got shaped by what the folks wanted, and there were a heap more folks choosin' the wrong path than the right one, so they were headin' straight for trouble, 'cause the rules had gone all haywire.
Yup, and that ain’t all; they were as stubborn as a mule, and couldn't be run by the law or fairness, unless it was leadin' 'em right to their doom.
So it went that Nephi got plumb tuckered out from all their mischief; he gave up his seat of power and decided to spend the rest of his days preachin’ the good word, just like his brother Lehi, too.
That’s 'cause they hadn’t forgotten what their pap, Helaman, told 'em. And these are the words he uttered:
“Listen here, my boys, I want y’all to remember to keep the commandments of God; and it’d suit me fine if you spread the word to the folks out there. Look, I’ve given you the names of our first folks who hightailed it outta Jerusalem, and I did that so when you remember your names, you’ll recall their deeds; and when you think on ‘em, you’ll know they did good things.”
"Therefore, my sons, I want you to do what’s right, so folks can say, and it can be written, just as it’s been said and written about them.”
"And now my sons, listen real close; I’ve got a bit more to ask of you, and it ain't so you can brag, but to stack up some treasures in heaven, yeah, ones that last forever, that won’t fade away; to snag that precious gift of eternal life, which we reckon has been passed down from our poppas."
“O remember, remember, my sons, what King Benjamin said to his folks; don’t forget there ain’t no other way a man can be saved but through the redeeming blood of Jesus Christ, who’s a-comin’; don’t forget that he’s comin’ to save the world.”
“And remember well the words of Amulek he laid on Zeezrom, back in Ammonihah; he told him that the Lord surely would come to redeem his people, but not in their sins, but from their sins.”
“He’s been given the strength from the Father to save ‘em from their sins on account of their repentin’; so He’s sent His angels out to share the good news about repentin’, which leads to the Redeemer’s might, and to savin’ their souls.”
“And now, my sons, don’t forget, don’t forget that the rock of our Redeemer—who’s Christ, the Son of God—is what y’all need to build your foundation on; so when the devil sends his howlin' winds, his arrows in the whirlwind, and when all his hail and mighty storms start poundin’ on ya, it ain’t got no power to drag you down to the pit of misery and endless woe, 'cause you’re built on the rock that’s a sure foundation; and if folks build on it, they can’t fall."
“And it so happened that these were the words Helaman taught his boys; yep, he taught ‘em a whole lot of things that ain’t even been written down, and many things that have.”
“And they held on to his words; so they set off to keep God’s commandments and spreadin’ the word of God among all the Nephites, startin’ in the city of Bountiful;”
“And from there, they rode on to the city of Gid; and from Gid to the city of Mulek;”
“And from one town to another, till they’d been around to all the Nephites in the land southward; and then into the land of Zarahemla, among the Lamanites.”
“Lo and behold, they preached with such might that they stirred up many a dissentin’ soul who’d strayed from the Nephites, and they came forward to confess their sins and wanted to be baptized unto repentance, hightailin' it back to the Nephites to make amends for the wrongs they’d done.”
“And it came to be that Nephi and Lehi preached to the Lamanites with a power so great and authority given to ‘em that they could speak, and they were told what to say—”
“So they spoke, and the Lamanites were left lookin’ like they’d seen a ghost, convinced by what they taught, and as a result, eight thousand Lamanites baptized themselves unto repentance, realizing how wicked their folks’ traditions were.”
“And it came to pass that Nephi and Lehi took off from there to the land of Nephi.”
“But then they ran afoul of a Lamanite army that tossed ‘em in the clink; yep, that very same prison where Ammon and his brothers had been locked away by Limhi’s men.”
“After bein’ cooped up without grub for many a day, they figured it was high time to drag ‘em outta there to finish the job and put ‘em to death.”
“But when it came down to it, Nephi and Lehi were surrounded by fire, so much so that the Lamanites were too spooked to lay a finger on ‘em for fear they’d get scorched. But Nephi and Lehi didn’t burn up; it was like they were just standin’ in the middle of a fire without a scratch.”
“When the Lamanites saw that fiery ring around ‘em and it didn’t scorch the boys, their hearts filled with courage.”
“They saw the Lamanites weren’t about to touch ‘em; they stood there lookin' dumbfounder than a cow in a tornado.”
“Then Nephi and Lehi stood up and said: ‘Don’t be scared, ‘cause it’s God showin’ ya this wonder, showin’ you can’t lay a hand on us to take our lives.’”
“And behold, when they finished speakin’, the earth shook mighty fierce, and the walls of the prison quaked as though they’d tumble down, but they didn’t. Turns out, the ones in there were Lamanites and dissentin’ Nephites.”
“Then a cloud of darkness rolled in, and they were filled with an awful, solemn fear.”
“A voice came down from above that cloud, sayin’: ‘Repent, repent, and don’t you dare seek to harm my servants whom I’ve sent to share the good news.’”
“When they heard that voice and saw it weren’t no thunder or big ol’ racket, but a soft voice that was smooth as silk and cut straight to their hearts—”
“Even with the softness of that voice, the earth shook like a wild mustang, and the walls trembled again as if ‘bout to fall, but that cloud of darkness still hung overhead—”
“Then again, the voice came sayin’: ‘Repent, repent, for the kingdom of heaven is near; and don’t seek to harm my servants no more.’ That made the earth shake again and the walls quiver.”
"And then a third time, the voice came with words so marvelous no man could ever say ‘em; and once more, the walls shook and the ground quaked like it was gonna split open."
“So them Lamanites couldn’t skedaddle ‘cause of that dark cloud hangin’ over ‘em; and they were stuck in place ‘cause fear wrapped ‘em up tighter than a roped steer.”
“Now, there was one among ‘em who hailed from the Nephites, a gal who used to belong to the church but had wandered off.”
“He turned around and, lo and behold, he saw through that dark cloud the faces of Nephi and Lehi; and they were shinin’ bright, just like angel faces. He noticed they lifted their gazes to heaven; looked like they were chattin' or callin’ out to some bein’ up there.”
“Then this fella cried out to the folks, tellin’ ‘em to turn and take a gander. A power flowed over them, and they turned to look; and they saw the faces of Nephi and Lehi.”
“They asked the fella: ‘What in tarnation does all this mean, and who are these men talkin’ to?’”
“Now, this fella’s name was Aminadab. And Aminadab told ‘em: ‘They’re talkin’ to the angels of God.’”
“Then the Lamanites asked him: ‘What in the world can we do to shake this cloud of darkness that’s hoverin’ over us?’”
“Aminadab answered: ‘Y’all gotta repent, and holler to the voice, till ya believe in Christ, who was told to ya by Alma, Amulek, and Zeezrom; and once ya do that, the cloud of darkness will lift.’”
“So they all started cryin’ to that voice that had shook the ground; yes, they cried till that dark cloud finally parted.”
“When they cast their gazes around and saw that cloud of darkness had cleared, they noticed they were all surrounded by a mighty pillar of fire.”
“And there was Nephi and Lehi right in the middle of ‘em; yeah, they were surrounded as if by a glorious flame, yet it didn’t hurt ‘em, nor did it catch hold of the prison walls; and they were filled with a joy that couldn’t be described, full of glory.”
“And behold, the Holy Spirit of God came down from heaven, seeping into their hearts, fillin’ ‘em with a fire that had ‘em speakin’ marvelous words.”
“And it so happened that a sweet voice, whisper-like, spoke to ‘em:”
“‘Peace, peace be unto you, ‘cause of your faith in my Beloved, who has been around since the world’s foundation.’”
“When they heard the voice, they lifted their eyes, tryin’ to see where it came from; and behold, the heavens opened up, and angels came down from heaven, ministerin’ to ‘em.”
“There were ‘round three hundred souls who witnessed and heard all this; and they were told to go on now and marvel not, nor doubt a thing.”
“So they went on out, ministerin’ to the folks, tellin’ all around about everything they’d seen and heard, to the point that most of the Lamanites were convinced by the mighty evidence they’d been shown.”
“And those who’d been convinced laid down their weapons of war, along with their hatred and the traditions of their fathers.”
“And it came to pass that they handed over their lands to the Nephites.”
