Well now, it so happened that Nephi laid down some mighty words, and lo and behold, a bunch of judges who were in cahoots with that sneaky outlaw gang Gadianton got a bee in their bonnet. They was fumin’ and hollerin’ at him, shoutin’ to the folks: Why ain’t y’all wranglin’ this man and draggin’ him forth so he can get his just deserts for the wrongs he done?
Why do ya look at this fella and hear him sling mud at this good people and our law?
'Cause you see, Nephi had been yappin’ about how crooked their law was; sure did say a whole heap of things that just can’t be penned down, and all he spoke was true ‘nuff to the commandments of the Good Lord.
Them judges were fit to be tied ‘cause he spoke straight talk about their shady dealings of darkness; still, they didn’t dare lay a finger on him, ‘cause they were scared the townsfolk would holler ‘bout them.
So, they called out to the people, sayin’: Why do y’all let this man run his mouth at us? ‘Cause you see, he’s callin' for the downfall of this here crowd, sayin’ our fine cities are gonna be snatched away from us, leavin’ us with nary a place to call home.
And now we figure that’s as likely as a snowstorm in July, ‘cause we’re strong, and our cities are sturdy, so there ain't no way our foes can get the best of us.
And thus it came to pass, they riled up the folks against Nephi and stirred up a ruckus; for some did shout: Leave this feller alone, ‘cause he’s a good man, and what he says is bound to come true unless we mend our ways;
Yup, all the bad stuff he warned us about is fixin’ to hit us, ‘cause we know he’s tellin’ the truth about our wrongdoings. And let me tell ya, we got a pile of those, and he knows just as well what’s gonna come our way as he knows our sins;
Yup, if he ain’t a true prophet, there’s no way he coulda talked about all these things.
And it turned out that them folks wanted to do Nephi in were held back by fear, so they didn’t lift a finger; thus, he started talkin’ to them again, seein' as he had made some headway with a couple folks, enough that the rest got a bit jittery.
So, he felt the urge to tell ‘em more: Listen here, friends, ain’t y’all read that God gave power to a single man, Moses, to whack the waters of the Red Sea, and they parted ways like folks clearin’ out for a stampede, so that our forefathers, the Israelites, could cross on dry land, and the sea swallowed up the Egyptian army?
Now, if God gave this man that kinda power, why in tarnation are y’all squabblin’ ‘bout it, claimin’ he didn’t hand me no power to know the judgments ‘bout to rain down on ya unless you shape up?
But, lo and behold, ye not only throw my words to the wind, but you also toss out all the words of our ancestors, and them too of that fella Moses, who was given such mighty strength, and the words he spoke ‘bout the coming of the Messiah.
Didn’t he testify that the Son of God should arrive? And just as he held up that brass serpent in the wilds, so too shall he be raised up who is to come.
And just as all who gazed upon that serpent lived, all those who look upon the Son of God with a faithful heart and a humble spirit might live too, right into that eternal life.
And now, don’t ya see, Moses didn’t only speak of these matters, but all the holy prophets from his time right back to Abraham.
That’s right, and Abraham got a glimpse of his coming and was filled with joy and gladness.
And I’m tellin’ ya, Abraham not only knew all this, there were many folks way before him called by the order of God; yes indeed, even after the order of His Son, to show the people, many moons before He arrived, that redemption was comin’ for ‘em.
And now I’d have ya know that since Abraham’s days, many prophets have stood up and shouted these truths; yep, looky here, the prophet Zenos testified bold as a lion, and that’s why he bit the dust.
And don’t forget Zenock, Ezias, Isaiah, and Jeremiah, (that's the same Jeremiah who bawled about the end of Jerusalem) and now we all know that Jerusalem fell just like he said it would. So then, why wouldn’t the Son of God come, just as he prophesied?
Now will ya argue with the fact that Jerusalem was laid low? Will ya claim the sons of Zedekiah didn’t get taken down, save for Mulek? And do ya not see that Zedekiah’s kin are here with us, bein’ tossed out from Jerusalem’s lands? But hold on, that ain’t all—
Our father Lehi got driven out of Jerusalem for shoutin’ about these truths. Nephi too, along with nearly all our forebears, has testified about the coming of Christ, lookin’ ahead and findin’ joy in the day that’s gonna arrive.
And looky here, he is God, and he’s been among ‘em, showin’ His face to ‘em, and they were saved by him; they sung His praises ‘cause of what’s gonna happen.
And since y’all know this and can’t deny, unless you be lyin’, this right here is your sin, for you’ve turned your backs on all this, in spite of all the proof you’ve seen; yep, you’ve gathered all kinds of things, both from above and below, as a witness to their truth.
But alas, you’ve cast out the truth and rebelled against your holy God; and even now, instead of stockin’ up treasures for yourselves in heaven, where nuthin’ rots and nuthin’ unclean can set foot, you’re just stackin’ up trouble for the judgment day.
Right now, you’re ripenin’ for disaster ‘cause of your slaughters, fornicating, and all sorts of wickedness, and eternal ruin’s comin’ at ya real fast; unless ya change your ways, it’ll be knockin’ at your door real soon.
Yep, it’s right on your doorstep now; so take a gander at your judgment-seat, and looky here, your judge has been done in, layin’ in his own blood; and he was taken out by his own kin, who’s eyein’ that judgment-seat for himself.
And what’s more, both of ‘em are part of your secret gang, led by Gadianton and that villain who’s after the souls of men.
