Well now, reckon when Nephi opened his mouth, there was a handful of fellas among the crowd who took off runnin' to that judgment seat; sure enough, five of 'em went dashin' off, chattin’ amongst themselves on their way.
Alrighty then, we’re ‘bout to find out for certain if this fella be a prophet or if the Good Lord's given him the nod to spin us such tall tales. We ain't reckonin' he has, no siree, we think he ain't no prophet. But if what he spun ‘bout the chief judge bein' dead holds water, then maybe we’ll believe the other tall tales he’s told.
So they were runnin' like the wind and burst into the judgment seat, and lo and behold, the chief judge lay there flat on the ground, covered in his own blood.
When they laid eyes on that gruesome sight, they were shocked outta their boots, fallin' right down to the ground ‘cause they couldn’t believe what Nephi had said ‘bout the chief judge.
But once they saw with their own eyes, they believed, and dread washed over ‘em like a rainstorm ‘cause they were right scared that all them judgments Nephi had warned ‘bout might come down on the folks; they started shakin’ and fell to the ground.
Right away, as soon as the judge was done in—stabbed by his own kin in a cloak of secrecy, he hightailed it outta there, and the servants scrambled to tell the folks, raisin' a ruckus ‘bout the murder.
Then folks came a-gatherin' ‘round the judgment seat, and to their shock, they spotted those same five fellas flattened on the ground.
The crowd didn’t know a lick ‘bout the bunch gathered up at the garden of Nephi, so they figured: These men here must be the ones that done the judge dirty, and God musta struck ‘em low so they couldn’t skedaddle from us.
So, they grabbed ahold of ‘em, tied ‘em up, tossed ‘em into jail, and started shoutin' that the judge had been taken down, and the murderers had been nabbed and locked up.
Next day, the folks came together to mourn and fast for the great chief judge who had been knocked off.
And lo and behold, those judges who were at the garden of Nephi, listenin' to him, also gathered up for the burial.
Then they asked around, sayin', Where’s the five folks who were sent to find out if the chief judge was dead? And folks answered, As for them five you speak of, we don’t know a thing; but there are five who are the murderers, and we tossed ‘em into jail.
Well, the judges wanted those five brought forth, and when they arrived, sure ‘nuff, they were the ones sent out to investigate; the judges pressed ‘em for the details, and they shared everything, sayin':
We ran straight to that judgment seat, and when we saw things just like Nephi had said, we were flabbergasted and dropped to the ground; and when we came to our senses, they tossed us into jail.
As for the murder of this man, we don’t know who done it; the only thing we know is we ran just as you asked and sure enough, he was dead, just like Nephi foretold.
Then the judges laid it all out for the people, yellin' against Nephi, sayin': We reckon this Nephi must have struck a deal with someone to take out the judge, just so he could tell us and win us over to his side, tryin' to make a name for himself as a mighty man of God and a prophet.
Now listen here, we’ll catch this fella out, and he’s gonna fess up about what he done and point us to the real killer of the judge.
Sure ‘nuff, the five were set free on the day of the burial. But they sure did give the judges what for on the things they said against Nephi, arguin' with ‘em so hard that they had ‘em all head-scratchin’.
Still, they had Nephi rounded up and tied up before the crowd, and they started grillin' him in all sorts of ways, tryin' to trap him and pin the tail on him like he was guilty as sin—
Accusin' him: You’re in cahoots; who’s this no-good who committed the murder? Now spit it out and own up to your part; here’s some cash, and we just might let ya have your life if you spill the beans and confess what you did.
But Nephi shot back at 'em: You pack of fools, you hard-hearted, blind folks, don’t you see how long the Almighty's gonna let you keep wanderin’ down this path of sin?
Y’all oughta start howlin’ and mournin’, ‘cause there’s a heap of destruction comin’ your way if you don’t change your ways.
Now you say that I’ve made a pact with a man to murder Seezoram, our chief judge. But I tell ya, that’s just me bein’ a witness, so you all know what’s up; I just know the wickedness and evils that’s among you.
And ‘cause I spoke the truth, you think I’m in on this murder plot; yeah, you’re mad at me ‘cause I showed you this sign, and now you want me dead.
Now I’m gonna show you another sign, and we’ll see if you still wanna come for me.
Here’s the deal: Go on over to Seantum’s place, Seezoram’s brother, and tell him—
Did Nephi, the so-called prophet, who’s spoutin’ all this bad news ‘bout us, make a deal with ya to murder Seezoram, your brother?
And sure as shootin’, he’ll say, Nope.
And you’ll ask him, Have you taken your brother’s life?
He’ll freeze in fear, not knowin' what to say. And he’ll deny it all, actin' like he’s shocked, but he’ll claim he’s innocent.
But y’all oughta give him a good look, and you’ll find blood on the edge of his coat.
Once you see that, you’ll say: Where in tarnation did this blood come from? Ain’t it your brother’s blood?
Then he’ll start to shake and look pale, like death’s knockin’ on his door.
Then you’ll say: Because of your fear and this pale look of yours, we know you’re guilty.
And then even greater fear will wash over him, and he’ll confess to ya, and no longer deny that he was the one who did that dirty deed.
And he’ll say to you, I, Nephi, don’t know nothin’ ‘bout this except what God’s revealed to me. And then you’ll know I’m an honest man, sent to you from God.
Sure enough, they went out and did just as Nephi said. And wouldn’t you know it, everything he said was true; he denied it just like he said he would; and then he confessed just like he said he would.
Turns out he was the real killer, and the five got set free, along with Nephi.
Some of the Nephites were convinced by Nephi’s words, and others were swayed thanks to the testimony of the five, who found faith while stuck in jail.
Now there were some folks in the crowd who figured Nephi was a prophet.
And others said: Whoa, he must be divine, ‘cause if he ain't, there’s no way he could know all that he knows. He laid bare the thoughts in our hearts and even revealed the truth ‘bout who really did in our chief judge.
