The Book of Alma the Son of Alma
Well now, let me spin ya a tale ‘bout Alma, the son of old Alma, he was the main judge and the high priest over the Nephites—kinda a big deal, ya know? This here’s the story of the judges takin’ charge, all them fights and ruckus among the folks. Also, a tale of a scrap between the Nephites and them Lamanites, just like Alma scribbled down for us.
Now, Nehor was out there preachin’ all sorts of goofy stuff, settin’ up his own church, and actin’ all priestly-like, then he goes and takes out Gideon—Nehor got what was comin’ to him for his sins—priestcraft and harassment spreadin’ like wildfire ‘mongst the folks—while the priests took care of themselves, the good folks were busy lookin’ after the poor, and the Church was flourishin’. We’re talkin’ ‘bout 91 to 88 B.C., y’all.
Well, it turned out that in the first year of them judges takin’ over the Nephites, king Mosiah had kicked the bucket, after fightin’ the good fight and livin’ right by the Good Lord, leavin’ no one to take his throne; but he sure had set some laws in place that folks were expected to follow.
Then it came to be that in Alma's first year sittin’ in judgment, a big ol’ fella was brought up for some judgment, a dude known for bein’ strong as an ox.
This fella was runnin’ around, preachin’ his own idea of God’s word and takin’ shots at the Church; tellin’ everyone that every priest and teacher oughta be famous and shouldn’t bother with regular jobs ‘cause the folks oughta support ‘em.
He was also yappin’ ‘bout how everyone would be saved in the end, and folks didn’t need to be scared or shakin’ in their boots, but could just lift their heads high and rejoice—‘cause the Lord made everybody and saved ‘em too, and in the end, everyone would get eternal life.
Now, he was so convincing with his ramblin’ that a whole heap of folks started believing him, and next thing ya know, they were puttin’ money in his pockets.
Well, that went to his head somethin’ fierce, and he started wearin’ fancy clothes, and even went to settin’ up a church like he preached.
As he was out there preachin’ to all them folks who bought what he was sellin’, he ran into one of those God-followin’ folks, a teacher of the Church, and tried to argue with him real sharp-like, hopin’ to sway them folks; but the good man stood his ground, callin’ him out with the Good Word. 
Now, the fella’s name was Gideon, and he was doin’ God’s work helpin’ the folks of Limhi get outta their mess.
‘Cause Gideon wouldn't back down with his God-talk, Nehor got mad as a hornet and pulled his sword, startin’ to swing at him. Now Gideon wasn’t a young buck anymore, so he couldn’t defend hisself, and he ended up payin’ the ultimate price.
The folks from the church didn’t take kindly to that, and they brought Nehor before Alma to get judged for his misdeeds.
So there he stood in front of Alma, makin’ a case for himself, all bold-like.
But Alma told him, "Now hold up, this is the first time anythin’ like priestcraft has shown up around here. Not only are ya guilty of tryin’ to pull some priestcraft, but you tried to force it with a pointy sword; if that junk gets loose, it’s gonna ruin us all."
He went on, "You done shed the blood of a good man, one who was doin’ right by these folks; if we just let ya slide, his blood'll fall on us.”
So listen here, you’re gonna be put to death, just like the law from our last king Mosiah says, and everyone knows it; so ya best believe this crowd’s gonna stick by it.
And so they took him away; his name was Nehor; they hauled him up to the top of the hill Manti, and he had to own up, right there with the heavens and earth, that his preachin’ was all wrong according to God’s word; and there he faced a mighty shameful end.
But that didn’t slow down the spread of priestcraft none; no sir, there were plenty folks who still fancied the shiny things in life, out preachin’ their falsehoods for gold and fame.
But they were too scared to tell a lie if folks found out, scared of the law, ‘cause liars didn’t get off easy; so they played pretend and claimed to preach what they believed, and the law had no grip on a man just for what he believed in.
They were also too scared to steal, worried about gettin’ in trouble, ‘cause thieves didn’t go free neither; they didn’t go about robbin’ or killin’ folks, ‘cause murderers got the harshest punishment.
But it wasn’t long before those who didn’t belong to God’s church started givin’ those who did a hard time, and those folks took upon themselves the name of Christ.
Yep, they were givin’ ‘em a hard time, feelin’ free to toss around all kinds of mean words, ‘cause they were humble and didn’t think too highly of themselves; they shared God’s word kin to kin, without askin’ for a dime.
Now, there was a strict rule among the church folks that no one from the church was to go harassin’ anybody who didn’t belong to ‘em, and that they shouldn’t be fightin’ amongst themselves.
Still, quite a few of ‘em got a bit puffed up, started gettin’ into fights with their rivals, throwin’ punches; yep, they was layin’ their hands on each other.
Now this was in the second year of Alma’s reign, and it brought a whole mess of trouble for the church; it sure was a time of trials for them.
Many hearts grew tough, and their names got wiped out like they never existed among God’s people. Plus, a bunch just wandered off from the bunch.
Now this was a big ol’ test for those who held strong in the faith; but they stayed steadfast and wouldn’t budge on God’s commandments, takin' the beatin’ they got with patience.
When the priests took a break to share the Good Word, folks set down their work to listen. And when them priests finished their speakin’, everyone went back to workin’ hard; and the priests didn’t think they were better than the listeners, ‘cause the preacher ain’t no better than the hearer, and the teacher ain’t above the learner; so they were all equal, workin' hard, all doin’ what they could.
They shared what they had with the needy—every man givin’ what he could to the poor, the sick, and those in trouble; and they didn’t deck themselves out in fancy gear, but they sure were tidy and presentable.
And just like that, they got their church affairs straightened out; and somehow, they found a way to have peace again, in spite of all the mess they faced.
And now, due to the firmness of the church, they started gettin’ real well-off, havin’ plenty of what they needed—an abundance of critters and livestock, good eatin’, and piles of grain, gold, silver, and all sorts of fine things, and even nice cloth to wear.
So, in their good fortune, they didn’t turn away nobody who was naked, hungry, thirsty, sick, or went unfed; and none of ‘em had their hearts set on gettin’ rich; so they were generous to all, young and old, bonded and free, male and female, whether they were church folks or not, showin’ no favoritism toward those in need.
And that’s how they grew richer than the folks who weren’t part of their church.
Them folks who didn’t belong to the church were off indulgin’ in all sorts of tomfoolery, idol-worship, and idleness, givin’ into empty chatter, jealousy, and strife; sportin’ fancy duds; thinkin’ a heap of themselves; dishin’ out persecution, lies, theft, robbery, commitin’ all sorts of sins—including murder; yet the law was hot on their heels, comin' down hard on any who stepped outta line, as much as they could manage.
And it turned out, with the law bein’ enforced on ‘em, every man payin’ for the mess he made, they quieted down, and didn’t dare commit any more wrongdoing if folks found out; so, there was a heap of peace among the Nephite folks right up until the fifth year of them judges runnin’ things.
