Well now, lemme tell ya, Lehi come down from Manasseh—Amulek was 'bout to share how the angel told him to look after Alma—Them prayers from the good folks sure do keep the people safe—But those no-good lawyers and judges? They're the ones settin' up the whole mess that leads to destruction, y'know? This is all goin' on 'round '82 B.C.
So here's what Amulek had to say to the folks gathered 'round in Ammonihah:
Well, I’m Amulek; my daddy was Giddonah, who got that from Ishmael, who was kin to Aminadi; and lemme tell ya, that very Aminadi’s the fella who could read what was writ on the temple wall by the finger of God Himself.
And Aminadi came from Nephi, who was Lehi’s boy, who made his way outta Jerusalem, comin' down from Manasseh, who was Joseph’s son, you know, the one who got sold off to Egypt by his brothers.
So, I reckon y’all oughta know, I’m no stranger 'round these parts; folks know me real well; I got plenty of kin and friends, and I’ve wrangled up a good bit of wealth through hard work.
But I gotta admit, even with all that, I didn’t really know much 'bout the Lord's ways or His amazing power. I thought I didn’t know all that much, but shoot, I was wrong, ‘cause I done seen plenty of His wonders, especially how He saved our lives.
Still, I closed off my heart, 'cause I been called many a time and just turned a deaf ear; I knew all 'bout these things, but I just wouldn’t pay no mind, so I kept on fightin’ against God, with a hard heart, right up till the fourth day of this seventh month in the tenth year the judges were runnin’ things.
Well, as I was headin’ to visit some close kin, wouldn’t ya know it, an angel appeared and said: Amulek, you need to head back home, 'cause you're gonna take care of a prophet of the Lord; a holy man, chosen by God; he’s been fastin’ for days 'cause of this people’s sins, and he’s hungry, so you best take him in and feed him, and he’s gonna bless you and your home; the Lord’s blessings gonna rest on you and yours.
So I did what the angel said and turned back home. Lo and behold, I ran into that very man the angel told me 'bout—yep, the same one who’s been talkin’ to y’all 'bout God’s stuff.
And the angel told me he’s a holy man; no doubt in my mind, 'cause that’s what the angel of God said.
And I know for a fact, the things he’s lyin’ on are true; so help me, as the Lord lives, He sent that angel to show me the truth; and this here Alma has been at my place while all this was goin’ on.
‘Cause listen here, he’s blessed my home, blessed me and my women and my young’uns, and my daddy and the rest of my kin; sure as shootin’, the Lord’s blessings have been upon us just like he said they'd be.
Now when Amulek finished up his speech, folks started lookin’ surprised, seein’ that there wasn’t just one person testifying 'bout all the stuff they was accused of, but a whole bunch who were prophesying the future.
Still, some of them twisted folks thought they’d trip him up and catch him sayin’ something wrong so they could turn him over to them judges and get ‘em punished however they could make it stick.
You see, them lawyers was the ones tryin’ to drag ‘em down; they was paid by the people to play judge and jury when it come time for trials.
Now these here lawyers were all slick in their words and actions; they knew their way around the law just enough to make it work for 'em.
So they started grillin’ Amulek, tryin’ to catch him out on his words, make him contradict himself.
But they didn’t reckon that Amulek could see right through their plans. When they started up with their questions, he figured out what they was thinkin’ and said to 'em: Oh, y’all wicked folks, you’s lawyers and hypocrites, layin’ down the devil’s groundwork; y’all been settin’ them traps to catch God’s holy ones.
You’re schemin’ to twist the righteous folks’ paths, bringin' God’s wrath on yourselves, leadin’ to the complete ruin of this people.
Shoot, like Mosiah our last king said when he was passin’ off the crown, wantin' folks to run things by their own sayin'—he knew if the people chose wickedness, they'd be ripe for destruction.
Now I’m tellin’ y’all, the Lord knows every last bit of your wrongdoings; He ain’t shy in callin’ this people to repent—He’s shoutin’, repent, 'cause the kingdom of heaven’s right at ya!
And yeah, He’s shoutin’ through His angels that: I’m comin’ down to my people, bringin’ fairness and justice along with me.
And listen here, if it weren’t for the righteous folks prayin’ around here, you’d likely be lookin’ at total destruction real soon; but it wouldn’t be by a flood like in Noah’s time, nah, it’d be by hunger, sickness, and sword fights.
But it’s them prayers from the good folks that’s keepin’ y’all safe; so if you go and kick the righteous outta your midst, the Lord ain’t gonna hold back, and His fierce anger’s gonna come down on y’all; you’ll be hit by famine, sickness, and sword, and it won’t be long if you don’t turn around.
Now the people got real mad at Amulek, and they hollered out, sayin’: This fella’s dissing our laws that are right, and our smart lawyers we picked.
But Amulek raised his hand and called out even louder, sayin’: Oh, y’all wicked folks, how’s Satan got such a grip on ya? Why y’all lettin’ him blind y’all to the truth in what’s bein’ said?
Have I said one word against your law? Y’all ain’t gettin’ it; you claimin’ I’m against your law, but I haven’t spoken against it, I’ve been speakin’ in its favor, really.
And now let me tell ya, the way this people’s bein’ brought down is through the wickedness of your lawyers and judges.
And when Amulek said all this, folks cried out against him, sayin’: Now we know this man’s a son of the devil, he’s been lyin’ to us; he’s said stuff against our law, and now he’s sayin’ he hasn’t.
And here he is talkin’ trash ‘bout our lawyers and judges.
Then them lawyers decided they’d remember all this against him.
And there was one in the crowd named Zeezrom. He was the main one jumpin’ to accuse Amulek and Alma, bein’ one of the slickest folks of the bunch, always havin’ dealings with the people.
Now these lawyers ain't in it for nothin’ but to line their pockets; and they sure made sure to get a good haul for their troubles.
