Well now, folks, listen up. Alma's chattin’ it up with Zeezrom, and lemme tell ya, you gotta be faithful to get the good stuff from God—ain’t no other way 'round it. We’re all judged by our thinkin’, what we believe, the words we spit out, and the stuff we do. Folks who get all wicked-like are gonna have a rough time, and I reckon that'll hurt their spirits real bad. This life we’re livin’? It’s just a test run. God’s got a plan to get us back to where we belong, and if we got faith, we can wipe our slates clean through the Only Begotten Son. And this was back 'round 82 B.C.
So Alma, seein’ that Amulek done shut Zeezrom up tight, like a cat that ate the canary, noticed Zeezrom was shakin’ in his boots, guilty as a dog with two tails. Alma opened his mouth, lettin' 'er rip to back up Amulek's words and dig into the good book even deeper.
Now, everybody around was listenin’ close; the crowd was thick as molasses, and Alma said it plain as day:
"Now Zeezrom, looks like you got caught red-handed in your fibbin' and trickery. You ain't just lied to folks, but you've been tellin' tales to God too! And lemme tell ya, He knows every single thought you got hidin’ in that noggin of yours, and we got a good ol’ notion of what you're thinkin' ‘cause His Spirit’s been lettin’ us in on the secret.
We can see you had yourself a sneaky little scheme, slicker than a greased pig, tryin' to twist up this crowd against us and get ‘em all riled up.
That there was a plan straight from your adversary, he’s been workin' through you. Now I hope you remember this here’s for everyone, not just you.
And I say, this here was a trap set by the adversary, tryin’ to catch this good ol’ people so he could drag you down and tie you up in chains that lead to a heap of trouble, all the way to destruction, based on how he controls folks.
Well, as soon as Alma laid all that out, Zeezrom was tremblin’ even more, realizin’ just how powerful God really is. He knew Alma and Amulek had a read on him, knew what he was thinkin’ deep down. They were given the power to see all this 'cause the Spirit sure knows how to prophesy.
So Zeezrom started askin' ‘em tons of questions, wantin' to learn all he could ‘bout the kingdom of God. He asked Alma, “What in tarnation does Amulek mean when he talks ‘bout everybody risin’ from the dead, the good and the bad, showin' up to be judged by God based on their actions?”
Then Alma started explainin’ it all to him, clarifying: “Now, a whole bunch of folks get to know the secrets of God, but there's a strict rule that says they can't spill it all—only what God chooses to share based on how much folks pay attention and hustle to understand Him.
So, if you harden your heart, you only get the least bit of His word; but if you keep your heart open, you’ll get a whole lot more, until you really get to know God’s mysteries like it’s the back of your hand.
And them folks who shut themselves off? They’ll only get a little slice of the truth ‘til they’re blind to all the mysteries; then they’ll end up bein' caught by the devil, doin' his bidding straight to ruin. That’s the chains of hell I’m talkin’ ‘bout.
Amulek laid it out clear ‘bout death, bein’ raised from this livin’ to a whole new way of bein’, standin’ before God to be judged by what we've done.
If our hearts are hard as a rock, if we’ve resisted the word so much that it ain’t in us, our state’s gonna be horrible, and we’re gonna be condemned, nothin' but a mess.
Every word we say's gonna turn ‘round and bite us; our actions will bring us down; and even our thoughts will stick us in the mud; in that awful condition, we won’t be able to look God in the eye, wishin’ we could just dive into a rock pile to hide from Him.
But there ain't no escapin’ it; we gotta come out and face Him in all His glory, power, might, majesty, and dominion, and, to our everlasting shame, acknowledge that all of His judgments are right. He’s fair in all He does, full of mercy for us folks, and He can save anyone who believes on His name and shows fruit worthy of repentance.
And let me tell ya, there’s a second death comin’, a spiritual one, and if anyone dies in their sins, like in a physical death, they’re gonna find themselves spiritually dead too; they’ll be lost when it comes to righteousness.
Then, they’ll be tormented like they’re tossed in a lake of fire, flames gettin’ higher and higher, and they’ll end up chained to everlasting destruction, ‘cause Satan’s got ‘em under his thumb.
Then, I reckon they’ll feel like no redemption ever happened, ‘cause God’s justice won’t let ‘em be redeemed, even if there ain't no more death.
Now when Alma wrapped up his speech, folks were lookin’ more and more stunned;
But there was this one feller, Antionah, a big shot among ‘em, who popped up and asked Alma: “What in the world does this mean when you say folks will rise from the dead and get changed from mortal to immortal, like the soul can’t ever die?
What’s the deal with that scripture that says God put cherubim and a flaming sword at the east of the garden of Eden, keepin’ our first folks from grabbin' that fruit from the tree of life and livin’ forever? Seems to me that was a sure sign they couldn't live forever after all.
Now Alma told him: “Here’s what I was fixin’ to explain. Adam fell when he took that forbidden fruit; that’s what God said, and that’s why we all ended up lost and fallen.
Now listen here, if Adam could’ve had that tree of life back then, there’d be no death comin’, and God’s word wouldn’t count for nothin’, make Him a liar—'cause He said, ‘If you eat, you surely gonna die.’
And we see that death hits all folks, that temporal death Amulek was talkin' about; but there was a window granted for man to repent; that’s why this life’s a time to get ready to meet God; it’s our chance to prepare for that endless life after the resurrection of the dead.
Now, if it weren’t for the plan of redemption, which was set since the world was new, there wouldn’t be no resurrection for the dead; but there was a plan laid down that’ll make resurrection happen, just like we been talkin’ about.
And ya know, if our first parents had just gone ahead and gotten that fruit from the tree of life, they’d’ve been miserable forever ‘cause they wouldn’t have anything to get ready for; that plan woulda gone right out the window, and God’s word would’ve been just a bunch of hot air.
But thank the good Lord, it ain’t like that; it was meant that man should die; and after that, they gotta stand before judgment, the same one we been jawin’ about, the end of all things.
And after God decided these things were gonna happen to man, He thought it was right that man oughta know what all was goin’ on;
That’s why He sent angels to talk to ‘em, lettin’ 'em see His glory.
And from that time on, they started callin’ on His name; that’s when God started conversin' with people and made known the plan of redemption that was set since way back when; and that was shared based on their faith and their efforts to do good.
So, God handed out commandments to folks, after they first messed up with the first set of rules, tryin’ to be like gods, knowin’ good from evil, puttin' themselves in a place to do what they want, whether it be good or bad—
That’s why God laid down the law after makin’ known His plan for redemption, tellin’ ‘em not to do bad stuff, ‘cause the penalty for that’s a second death, an everlasting death when it comes to righteousness; 'cause on such, that plan of redemption wouldn’t hold any power, not with God's goodness bein’ supreme.
But God called out to folks in the name of His Son—’cause that was the plan of redemption, sayin’: if ya repent and don’t harden your hearts, I’ll have mercy on ya through my Only Begotten Son;
So, whoever repents and doesn’t stick to stubbornness, they’ll lay claim to mercy through my Only Begotten Son, and their sins’ll be wiped clean; they’ll get to rest with me.
But whoever hardens their heart and goes down that crooked road, I swear in my fury, they ain’t gonna find rest with me.
Now, brethren, let me lay it out straight: if you harden your hearts, you ain’t gonna find the Lord’s rest; it’s your wrongdoing that’ll tick Him off, makin’ Him unleash His wrath on ya just like in the first time of provocation, and it’ll all lead to your everlasting destruction; that’s what His word says, all the way to the last death, just like the first.
And now, my brothers, since we know these things and they’re true, let’s repent and keep our hearts soft as butter; we don’t wanna make the Lord mad, bringin’ down His wrath on us with these second commandments He handed down; let’s jump into God’s rest, which He prepared for us based on His word.
