Folks get called as high priests ‘cause they got a heap of faith and doin’ good works—They’re fixin’ to teach the commandments—Through livin’ right, they get all cleaned up and can rest easy in the Lord—Melchizedek was one of them—Angels are spreadin’ good news all over the place—They’ll shout out ‘bout the real comin’ of Christ. ‘Bout 82 B.C.
Now, I’d like y’all to think back to when the Good Lord handed out them commandments to His kin; and I want ya to remember that the Lord set up priests, after His holy way, which was the way of His Son, to share these truths with the folks.
And those priests were set apart just like His Son, so folks would know how to look ahead to Him for their salvation.
And here’s how it went down—they were called and ready from the very start of the world ‘cause the Lord knew ‘em ahead of time, ‘cause of their great faith and good deeds; first off, they could pick good or bad; and since they picked good, showin’ a heap of faith, they got a holy callin’, sure enough, that holy callin’ was part of a plan for redemption.
So, they got this holy callin’ ‘cause of their faith, while others turned their backs on the Spirit of God ‘cause their hearts were hard and their minds were blind. If it weren’t for that, they coulda had the same chance as the rest.
In short, at first, they was on equal ground with their kin; so this holy callin’ was laid out from the very start for folks who wouldn’t harden their hearts, thankin’ to the atonement of the Only Begotten Son, who was all set—
And so, bein’ called by this holy callin’, and ordained to the high priesthood of God’s holy order, they’re to teach His commandments to the children of men, so they too can find some rest—
This high priesthood is of the same order as His Son, which has no start nor end, bein’ made ready from eternity to eternity, knowin’ all things from the get-go—
Now they were set apart like this—called with a holy callin’, and ordained with a holy ordinance, takin’ on the high priesthood of the holy order, this callin’, ordinance, and high priesthood ain’t got no start nor finish—
So they’re high priests forever, just like the Son, the Only Begotten of the Father, who ain't got no start nor end, who’s full of grace, fairness, and truth. And that’s how it is. Amen.
Now, like I said ‘bout the holy order or this high priesthood, there were plenty who got ordained and became high priests of God; and it was ‘cause of their strong faith and turnin’ back to God, choosin’ to live right instead of goin’ to waste;
So they were called after this holy order, and made holy, and their clothes were washed clean in the blood of the Lamb.
Now, after bein’ made holy by the Holy Ghost, with their clothes all clean, pure as a whistle before God, they couldn’t even look at sin ‘less it made ‘em sick; and there were a whole lot, a truly great many, who got made pure and found their peace with the Lord their God.
And now, my brothers, I sure hope y’all humble yourselves before God, bringin’ forth good fruit fit for repentance, so you can enter into that peace, too.
Yep, humble yourselves just like the folks back in Melchizedek’s day, who was also a high priest after this same order I been talkin’ ‘bout, who took on the high priesthood forever.
And it was this same Melchizedek that Abraham forked over some tithes to; yep, even our father Abraham paid one-tenth of all he had.
Now these ordinances were laid out like this, so people could look forward to the Son of God, bein’ a model of His order, so they could find forgiveness for their sins and enter into the rest of the Lord.
Now this Melchizedek was the king over the land of Salem; and his folks had gotten real bad, full of sin and wickedness; yep, they had all gone astray; they were knee-deep in all kinds of wrongdoing;
But Melchizedek, with mighty faith, took on the high priesthood according to God’s holy order, preached repentance to his folks. And guess what, they did repent; and Melchizedek brought peace to the land back in his day; that’s why they called him the prince of peace, ‘cause he was the king of Salem; and he was reignin’ under his daddy.
Now, there were others before him, and plenty after, but none shined brighter; that’s why folks talk about him more than the rest.
Now I ain't gotta go on and on; what I’ve shared is enough. Look, the scriptures are right there for ya; if you mess with ‘em, it’ll be your own downfall.
And so it happened that when Alma had said these words to ‘em, he reached out his hand and shouted loud, sayin’: Now’s the time to repent ‘cause salvation’s on its way;
Yep, the Lord’s voice, through angels, is tellin’ it to all nations; sure ‘nuff declares it, so they can hear some good news that’ll make ‘em joyful; yep, and He’s shoutin’ these glad tidings to all His folks, even to those scattered ‘round the earth; that’s how we got ‘em comin’ to us.
And they’re bein’ made clear to us, plain as day, so we can get it right, ‘specially since we’re wanderers in a strange land; so we’re mighty blessed to get these good tidings spread to us in all corners of our vineyard.
‘Cause look, angels are shoutin’ it to many folks right now in our land; and that’s to get the hearts of the children of men ready to take in His word when He comes in glory.
And now we’re just waitin’ to hear the wonderful news from angels ‘bout His comin'; ‘cause the time’s comin’, and we don’t know how soon. I wish it’d be in my time; but whether it’s soon or later, I’ll be glad for it.
And it’ll be told to just and holy men, by angels, when He comes, so the words of our fathers can come true, just as they spoke ‘bout Him, according to the spirit of prophecy that was in ‘em.
And now, my brothers, I’m wishin’ from the bottom of my heart, with all kinds of concern even to the point of pain, that y’all would listen to my words, and throw off your sins, and not put off the day of your repentance;
But that you’d humble yourselves before the Lord, callin’ on His holy name, watchin’ and prayin’ all the time, so you won’t be tempted more than you can handle, and bein’ led by the Holy Spirit, bein’ humble, meek, submissive, patient, full of love, and long-sufferin’;
Keepin’ faith in the Lord; hopin’ to get that eternal life; havin’ God’s love in your hearts always, so you can be lifted up at the end and find rest in Him.
And may the Lord grant you repentance, so you don’t draw His wrath on yourselves, so y’all won’t be chained down by hell, or face the second death.
And Alma had plenty more to say to the folks, but it ain’t written in this here book.
