Well, it all went down like this—after Alma finished talkin’ to the crowd, a bunch of ‘em started feelin’ what he was sayin’, turned their hearts around, and started diggin’ into them scriptures.  
But most folks, they had other ideas, all fired up to get rid of Alma and Amulek; they were mad at Alma for bein’ so blunt with Zeezrom, and they said Amulek was just spoutin' lies against their law and the folks who ran it.  
They were riled up at Alma and Amulek and wanted to sneak ‘em outta the picture just 'cause those two called out their wicked ways.  
But turns out they didn’t get away with it; they tied ‘em up good and proper and dragged ‘em before the top judge in town.  
The crowd went and started accusin’ ‘em, claimin’ they’d talked smack ‘bout the law and the lawyers and judges around there, and shouted that there was only one God, and that He was sendin’ His Son, though He ain't gonna save ‘em—not that they stopped there. Folks kept blabbin’ all sorts of things against Alma and Amulek right there in front of the chief judge.  
Then Zeezrom was taken aback by what he heard and realized the folks had been blind to the truth ‘cause of the lies he’d been spreadin’. His heart got heavy with guilt—he was feelin’ them fires of hell creep up on him.  
Next thing ya know, Zeezrom starts shoutin’ to the crowd, confessin’ he was guilty while those two were good as gold in God’s eyes. He began to beg for Alma and Amulek right then, but folks just scoffed and asked if he’d gone and lost his mind. They spat on him and kicked him out with all the other believers who listened to Alma and Amulek, sendin' them off with rocks flyin’ at ‘em.  
They gathered up their wives, kids, and anyone who believed in the good Word and tossed ‘em into the fire, along with their sacred scriptures, just to see ‘em burn up.  
Then they dragged Alma and Amulek to the place where they were gonna witness the fires burnin’ up those folks.  
When Amulek caught sight of all them women and kids sufferin' in the flames, he felt torn up inside and asked Alma, “How can we just stand by and watch this?” So he suggested they reach out and use their God-given power to save 'em from the flames.  
Alma put the brakes on that, sayin', “I can’t do it, the Spirit's holdin’ me back; the Lord's takin’ ‘em to glory, lettin’ them face this fire ‘cause their hearts are hardened. He’s gonna have a fair judgment come the end of days, and the blood of the innocent will stand up and shout against them.”  
Amulek then piped up, “Hold up now, what if they decide to burn us too?”  
And Alma replied, “Well, if it’s in the Lord’s plan, then that’s what it’ll be. But look here, our work ain’t done yet, so I don’t reckon they’ll be burnin’ us just yet.”  
Now as all those who got thrown in the fire was reduced to ashes along with the scriptures, the chief judge came struttin’ in to have a word with Alma and Amulek, who were still tied up tight. He slapped ‘em on the cheeks and asked, "Well, after seein’ all this, y’all still think you can preach to these folks about bein’ tossed into a lake of fire?”  
“Don’tcha see? You ain’t got the power to save those folks from the flames, and neither does God save ‘em for followin' you.” Then the judge smacked ‘em again and demanded, “What you gotta say for yourselves?”  
Now this judge was one of them Nehor types, the same crowd that took Gideon out.  
Alma and Amulek didn’t say a word, so the judge slapped ‘em again, handin’ ‘em over to the guards to be tossed in prison.  
Three days tied up in that cell, then a whole buncha lawyers, judges, priests, and teachers from the Nehor camp came by to see ‘em, throwin’ all sorts of questions at ‘em, but they kept their lips shut.  
The judge stood back up and declared, “Why y’all ain't answerin' what these people are sayin’? Don’t ya know I can throw you into the flames? Speak up!” But he got nothin’ in return.  
Then the judge left only to return the next day, smacking them again. Plenty other folks showed up too to slap ‘em and yell, "You gonna judge us again and throw our law under the bus? If you’re so powerful, why can't ya rescue yourselves?”  
They kept up their yammerin’, gnashin’ their teeth and spittin’ on ‘em, askin’, “How we gonna look when we get thrown into hell?”  
And they kept throwin' all sorts of insults at ‘em for days on end, holdin’ out food and keepin’ ‘em thirsty, takin’ away their clothes til they was bare-naked. There they were, all tied up tight and stuck in that prison.  
It went on like that for a while, until the twelfth day rolled around in the tenth month of the judges’ reign over Nephi, when the chief judge and a host of Nehor’s crew strutted back into the prison to where Alma and Amulek were all bound up.  
The judge stood right smack in front of ‘em and slapped ‘em again, sayin’, “If you got God's power, untie yourselves, and maybe then we'll believe what you’re preachin’ about this people bein’ destroyed.”  
So the whole bunch laid hands on ‘em, kept sayin' the same ol' thing till the last one said his piece. But at that point, the power of God kicked in for Alma and Amulek, and they stood up strong.  
Alma hollered, “Lord, how long we gotta take this kinda punishment? Give us the strength we need ‘cordin’ to our faith in Christ, and get us outta here!” They broke the ropes, and when folks saw that, they took off runnin’ in a panic ‘cause they knew doom was closin’ in on ‘em.  
Well, them folks were so scared they hit the dirt, forgettin’ about that prison door; the ground shook like a bull, and the prison walls came crashin’ down, takin’ the chief judge and all those lawyers, priests, and teachers who’d been givin’ Alma and Amulek a hard time.  
Alma and Amulek walked right outta that prison, unscathed; the Lord had given ‘em power ‘cause of their faith in Christ. They stepped outta that prison, the ropes gone, and the whole prison crumbled down, leavin’ no soul alive in there but ‘em two, and they made their way back into the city.  
Once the crowd heard that ruckus, they came runnin’ in all directions to figure out what was goin’ on. When they laid eyes on Alma and Amulek comin’ outta the prison, with the walls all fallen, they were struck with a fear so great they ran off like a scared goat with her kids from two hungry lions; so that’s how they fled from Alma and Amulek.
