Well, it so happened that Alma and Amulek was told to skedaddle outta that city; so they packed up and made their way over to Sidom; and lo and behold, they found all them folks that had split from Ammonihah, who'd been thrown out and stoned, 'cause they had faith in what Alma was spoutin'.
They started tellin' those folks all about what had gone down with their wives and kiddos, and the troubles they faced, all about how they got outta those pickle jars.
Now, Zeezrom was laid up sick in Sidom, burnin' up with a fever that came from the heavy load on his mind 'bout his bad deeds, ‘cause he thought Alma and Amulek were gone for good; figured they'd been taken out 'cause of his own misdeeds. And boy oh boy, that guilt and all his other sins was eatin' away at him till he was feelin’ mighty low, with no way to ease that burn.
When Zeezrom got wind that Alma and Amulek were in Sidom, his heart started feelin’ a bit braver; he sent a message real quick, askin’ for 'em to come see him.
So they took off right away, heedin' that call, and hit the road straight to Zeezrom's place; they found him laid out on his bed, feelin’ real rough with that nasty fever; and his mind was just as beat up from all those wicked ways; when he spotted them, he reached out his hand and begged 'em to heal him.
Alma looked at him, took his hand, and asked: "Do ya believe in the power of Christ to save ya?"
Zeezrom replied with a “Yup, I believe all them teachings you've been givin’.”
Then Alma said: "Well, if ya believe in Christ’s redemption, ya can be healed."
Zeezrom answered: "Yep, I’m all in with what you said."
Then Alma lifted his voice up to the Lord, sayin': "Oh Lord our God, show some mercy on this fella, and heal him ‘cordin’ to his faith in Christ."
Just as Alma got them words out, Zeezrom jumped up on his feet and started walkin’; folks couldn’t believe their eyes; news of this miracle spread all over Sidom quicker than a wildfire.
Then Alma dunked Zeezrom in the water for the Lord; from that moment on, Zeezrom started preachin’ to the good people.
Alma set up a church right there in Sidom, ordained some priests and teachers, so they could baptize anyone hankerin’ to join in.
And let me tell ya, folks came a-flockin' in from all around Sidom, eager to get baptized.
But over in Ammonihah, those folks were still hard-headed and stubborn as mules; they just wouldn’t fess up to their sins, givin' all the credit for Alma and Amulek’s power to the devil, ‘cause they followed Nehor's ways, not buyin' into the whole repentin' thing.
Then Alma and Amulek made their way back, with Amulek leavin’ behind all his gold, silver, and fancy stuff in Ammonihah, choosin’ the word of God over it, gettin’ shunned by all his old pals, his daddy, and kinfolk.
So, after Alma set up shop with the church at Sidom and saw a big ol’ shift in folks’ hearts, seein' them startin’ to humble themselves before God, gatherin’ up to worship at their altars, prayin' hard to be saved from the devil, death, and all that ruin—
Alma saw all this unfold, and he took Amulek with him to Zarahemla, took him right into his own home, helped him through his troubles, and gave him strength from the Lord.
And that, my friends, was the end of the tenth year of them judges callin’ the shots over the Nephite folks.
