Well, lemme tell ya 'bout the sons of Mosiah, who figured they didn't need no kingdom ‘cause they had somethin’ better – the good word of God. So, they packed their bags and headed on up to Nephi to preach to them Lamanites, goin' through a heap of troubles but gettin' delivered, all according to the records of Alma.
Now, them sons of Mosiah were filled with the spirit of prophecy and all that fancy revelation stuff. They all split up to spread the good word to the Lamanites. Ammon took off to the land of Ishmael and started servin' King Lamoni. And let me tell ya, Ammon did more than just serve – he saved that king's sheep and took care of them bad guys by the water there at Sebus. This was around 77 B.C., y'all; the years keep shiftin' about like a tumbleweed in the wind, goin’ back to ‘91’ish.
Now, here’s the deal: as Alma was headin' on down south from Gideon to Manti, he stumbled right onto the sons of Mosiah makin' their way to Zarahemla, and boy, was he surprised.
Turns out, he knew them boys from the first time the angel showed up and scared him silly. Seeing his brothers again brought him so much joy, and on top of that, they was still his brothers in the Lord! They were strong in the truth, understandin' the holy scriptures like nobody's business.
But wait, there’s more – they spent a lotta time prayin’ and fastin’. 'Cause of that, they got the spirit of prophecy and revelation, and when they preached, they preached with real power and God’s authority.
For 14 long years, they was preachin' the good word to those Lamanites, and lemme tell ya, they had some success in bringin' folks to the truth. Many souls were called before God’s altar to confess their sins, all because of the power of their words.
Now, here’s how it went while they was travelin': they had their share of trials, sufferin’ through hunger, thirst, weariness, and a heap of spiritual labor.
They set out on their journeys after tellin’ their dad, Mosiah, goodbye in the first year of the judges. They passed up the whole kingdom business their dad wanted to give ‘em, and that’s how the folks thought too.
So, they took off from Zarahemla, packin' their swords, spears, bows, arrows, and slingshots, all so they could gather up grub while wanderin' in the wild.
And off they went into the wilderness with the folks they had picked, headin’ to Nephi to preach the good word of God to the Lamanites.
They spent many a day wanderin' in the wild, prayin' and fastin' hard, hopin’ the Lord would share some of His spirit with ‘em so they could help bring their Lamanite brothers back to the truth and show 'em how wrong those old traditions of theirs had been.
Then the Lord showed up and comforted ‘em, lettin’ 'em know everything was gonna be alright.
He told ‘em, "Go on now, spread my word to yer brethren, but you gotta be patient through all the hard times. Show ‘em good examples of me, and I’ll use ya to save many souls."
And hot dang, them sons of Mosiah got the courage to go tell them Lamanites what God had to say.
When they rolled up to the edges of Lamanite land, they split up, hopin’ to meet again when the harvest was done, thinkin’ the work they was up to was mighty important.
And goodness, it was a big ol' task! They was fixin’ to preach to a wild, rough bunch who loved nothin' more than to kill those Nephites and take their stuff. These folks had their hearts set on riches more than hard work, always hopin' to get it by plunderin' and murderin'.
In fact, they were a lazy bunch, many of 'em worshippin' idols, and God’s curse had come down on ‘em 'cause of their folks’ traditions, yet the Lord was still willin' to extend His promises to ‘em if they’d just repent.
That’s why the sons of Mosiah took on the job – hopin’ they could lead ‘em to repentance and show ‘em the plan for redemption.
So, they split up, one by one, each man goin’ out solo, with the word and power of God givin’ ‘em strength.
Now Ammon was the top dog of the group, givin' ‘em all a blessin’ before he took off to do his own thing, and thus they went their own ways across the land.
Ammon found himself in the land of Ishmael, named after Ishmael’s kids, who turned out to be Lamanites too.
Well, when Ammon stepped into Ishmael, those Lamanites grabbed him up and tied him, just like they did with all the Nephites who fell into their hands, takin’ ‘em to the king. The king had all the say-so to do whatever he wanted with 'em – kill ‘em, keep ‘em captive, toss ‘em in jail, or kick ‘em outta his land.
So, there he was, brought before King Lamoni, who ruled over Ishmael; he was a descendant of Ishmael too.
The king asked Ammon if he wanted to stick around in Lamanite land with ‘em or not.
Ammon replied, “You bet I wanna hang out with this people for a spell; maybe even ‘til I take my last breath.”
Well, the king was mighty pleased and had Ammon’s ropes cut loose. He even offered him one of his daughters for a wife!
But Ammon turned him down, sayin', “No way, I’m just gonna be your servant.” So, Ammon became a straight-up servant to the king and was put in charge of mindin’ Lamoni’s flocks, just like the other Lamanites.
After Ammon had been servin’ the king for three days, he was with the Lamanites takin’ the flocks for a drink at the water of Sebus, where all the Lamanites brought their flocks.
Well, while they was there, a pack of Lamanites who had already watered their sheep came over and started scatterin’ Ammon’s and the king’s flocks, causin’ 'em to skedaddle off in all directions.
The king’s servants started mumblin’, “Uh oh, the king is gonna be real mad at us for losin’ the sheep he entrusted us with!” They cried, “Our flocks are already scattered!”
Now they was scared, shakin’ in their boots! But Ammon, he saw their panic and felt a swell of joy in his heart. He thought, “I’m gonna show these fellas the power I've got in bringin’ those flocks back to the king and win their trust.”
And then Ammon had a good thinkin’ session, watchin’ his brethren sufferin’ through their troubles.
He perked ‘em up with some sweet talk, sayin’, “Fellows, don’t lose hope! Let’s go hunt down them flocks and bring ‘em back to the water! We’ll save 'em for the king, and he won't take our heads!”
So they took off chasin’ after the scattered flocks, followin’ Ammon, runnin’ fast as they could to round ‘em up and bring 'em back to the water.
Now them Lamanites were poised to scatter the flocks again, but Ammon hollered at his companions, “Circle the flocks so they don’t run away, and I’ll go wrestle with these fellas causin' the trouble!”
And they did just that, followin’ Ammon’s lead, while he squared up to the ones who were messin’ around by the waters of Sebus, and there were a whole heap of ‘em.
They didn’t think twice about goin' after Ammon, reckonin’ one of their own could take him down, not realizin’ the Lord had told Mosiah He was gonna deliver his sons from harm. They didn’t know nothin' 'bout the Lord, so they just reveled in makin' mischief against their brethren, scatterin’ the king’s sheep like it was a Saturday mornin’ picnic.
But Ammon wasn’t havin’ none of it. He took his sling and started flingin’ them stones, hittin’ a good many of ‘em. They soon got astonished by his strength, yet anger boiled in their hearts for their fallen companions, and they were determined to take him down, comin’ at him with clubs when they couldn’t hit him.
Well, every time one of 'em swung a club at Ammon, he just cut their arms right off with his sword! He took their hits, knockin’ their arms clean off, causin’ ‘em to be so startled they started backin’ off like roaches when the lights come on. They was thick in number, but he sent ‘em runnin’ with the strength he had.
Now, out of six that he hit with his sling, he only ended up slayin’ their leader with his sword, but he hacked off a good many arms that came after him, and it sure was a sight to see.
After he chased ‘em off far enough, he went back to water the king’s flocks and brought ‘em safely back to pasture. Then he headed into the king’s presence, showin' off the arms he had smitten off those who tried to take him out, servin’ as proof of what he had done.
