Well, it all went down that King Lamoni got his folks together to stand up and tell 'em all the wild stuff they had seen 'bout what had been goin’ on.
And once they all shared their tales ‘bout what they’d seen, the king learned how faithful Ammon was in keepin’ his flocks safe, and how tough he was when folks tried to take him down. The king was just amazed and said, "Goodness gracious, this ain't just any ol’ man. Ain’t this the Great Spirit causin’ a ruckus with all these punishments 'round here 'cause of them murders?"
Well, his folks piped up and said, "King, we ain't sure if he’s the Great Spirit or just a fella, but what we know is that he can’t be killed by your enemies, and they can’t scatter your sheep when he’s around, ’cause he’s got skills and strength. So we reckon he’s a friend of yours. And shoot, we don’t think no human can pack that much power, ‘cause he sure ain’t easy to take down."
Now when the king heard all that, he was like, "Well, I reckon that must be the Great Spirit; He’s here right now to keep y’all safe, ‘cause I ain't about to go after you like I did your kin. This is that Great Spirit our ancestors talked about."
Now, this whole deal about the Great Spirit was somethin’ King Lamoni got from his daddy. Even though they believed in him, they thought everything they did was hunky-dory; but still, Lamoni started to get real nervous, thinkin’ maybe he messed up by killin’ his servants.
‘Cause, see, he had took out a whole bunch of ‘em ‘cause their kin had scattered the sheep by the water hole; and so, since the sheep went all over the place, he went ahead and killed ‘em.
Now, them Lamanites had a habit of hangin’ by the waters of Sebus, scatterin’ sheep around, tryin’ to drive ‘em away to their own land, it was just what they did when they was plunderin’.
And so King Lamoni asked his folks, "Hey, where's that fella with the crazy power?"
And they told him, "Well, he’s tendin’ to your horses. Now, before all this sheep-watering stuff, the king had told his crew to get the horses and chariots ready, 'cause they was supposed to take him to Nephi for a big ol’ feast set by Lamoni’s daddy, who ruled over the whole place."
So when King Lamoni found out Ammon was gettin’ his horses and chariots ready, he was just floored by how faithful Ammon was, sayin’, "I tell ya, I ain't seen a single one of my servants as loyal as him; he even remembers all my orders and gets ‘em done."
"I just know this must be the Great Spirit, and I really want him to come see me, but I ain't got the guts to ask."
Then Ammon had everything ready for the horses and chariots for the king and his crew, and he walked in to see the king lookin’ different, so he kinda thought he might wanna step back out again.
But one of the king's guys said to him, "Rabbanah," which means mighty king, thinkin’ kings oughta be powerful; and he told Ammon, "Rabbanah, the king wants you to stick around."
So Ammon turned back to the king and asked, "What can I do for ya, O king?" But the king sat there all quiet for an hour ‘cause he wasn’t sure what to say back.
Then Ammon tried again, sayin’, "What is it you want from me?" But the king still didn’t say a peep.
Ammon, filled with the Spirit of God, figured out what was on the king's mind. He said, "Is it ‘cause you heard I defended your servants and flocks, and took down seven of your foes with my sling and sword, and chopped off the arms of some others to keep your sheep and folks safe? Is that what’s got you all wonderin'?"
"I’m askin’ ya, what’s got ya so curious? Look here, I’m just a man and your servant; whatever you need that’s right, I’ll do it for ya."
Now when the king heard this, his jaw dropped again, how Ammon could read his mind and all; but still, he managed to ask, "Who are ya? Are ya that Great Spirit who knows everything?"
Ammon replied, "Nah, that ain't me."
And the king said, "How do you know what’s rollin’ around in my heart? Speak up, tell me the truth about all this; and while you’re at it, spill how you took out my folks who scattered the sheep— 
And look, if you can tell me how you did all this, whatever you want, I’ll give ya; and if ya need it, I’ll protect ya with my army; but I know you’re stronger than every last one of ‘em, still, you just holler what you want from me, and it’s yours."
Now, Ammon, real smart but gentle, said to Lamoni, "Now listen here, if I tell ya how I do what I do, you gonna pay attention to my words? That’s what I’m hopin’ for."
The king shot back, "Sure enough, I’ll believe everthing you say." And just like that, he was walkin' right into Ammon’s trap.
Then Ammon got bold and asked him, "Do you believe there’s a God?"
The king replied, "I ain't got a clue what that means."
Then Ammon pressed on, "Do ya reckon there's a Great Spirit?"
And the king said, "Yup."
And Ammon shared, "Well, that’s God. Now let me ask ya again, do you believe that this Great Spirit, who is God, made all the stuff in heaven and earth?"
And he said, "Yeah, I reckon He created everything here on earth, but I don’t know ‘bout the heavens."
Ammon told him, "The heavens is where God hangs out with all His holy angels."
And King Lamoni asked, "Is that up above the earth?"
Ammon responded, "Yep, and He looks down at all of us down here; He knows all the thoughts and what’s in our hearts ‘cause He made us all from the get-go."
Then King Lamoni said, "I believe every word you just said. You been sent from God, ain’t ya?"
Ammon said, "I’m just a man; and man was made in God’s image, and I’m called by His Holy Spirit to teach y’all what’s right and true;
And part of that Spirit lives in me, givin’ me knowledge and power ‘cordin' to my faith and what I want from God."
So after Ammon splained all this to him, he started way back at the beginning of the world, talkin’ ‘bout Adam and all that stuff, and laid out everything ‘bout the fall of man, plus shared all the records and holy scriptures from their folks, right up to the time when Lehi split Jerusalem.
And he went on to tell 'em (it was for the king and his crew) all the travels of their fathers in the wilderness, and all the hard times they had with hunger and thirst, and the struggles and whatnot.
He also talked about Laman and Lemuel and those Ishmael boys, yeah, he spilled all the drama about their rebellions, and explained all the records and scriptures desde Lehi’s departure to now.
But hang on, this ain’t all; he also laid out the whole plan of redemption prepared from the world’s foundation; plus, he mentioned Christ’s coming, and shared all the work the Lord’s done with ‘em.
And it turns out after he laid all that on the king, the king just believed everything he said.
And he started callin' out to the Lord, "O Lord, be merciful; according to all that love you’ve shown to the Nephites, show some on me and my people!"
And right after sayin’ that, he just fell flat on the ground, lookin' dead as a doornail.
And then his servants picked him up and carried him to his wife, layin’ him on the bed; and he looked dead for two days and two nights, and his wife and kids were all beside themselves, mournin’ like the Lamanites do, really grievin’ for him.
