Well now, it happened that after two long days and nights, they were fixin' to take his body and lay it down in a grave they had made up for buryin' their dead folks.
Now the queen had caught wind of Ammon's fame, so she sent out a call for him to come on over.
So, Ammon did what he was told and went on in to see the queen, askin' her what she needed him to do.
She told him: "My husband’s folks have let me know you’re a prophet of the good Lord, an' you got the power to do some mighty works in His name;
So if it's all true, I reckon you oughta go check on my husband, 'cause he’s been laid up in bed for two days and nights now; some folks say he ain't dead, but others say he is and he’s startin’ to stink, and should be put in the grave; but as for me, well, he don’t smell like nothin' to me."
Well, this was just what Ammon was itchin' to do, 'cause he knew King Lamoni was under God's power; the dark fog of disbelief was lifted from his mind, and that glorious light of God’s goodness was shinin’ in there—yep, that light had filled him with so much joy, pushin' away all that darkness, and the light of everlasting life was burnin' bright in his soul, bless his heart; he knew it had overwhelmed his natural self, and he was caught up in God—
So, what the queen wanted from him was all he desired. He went on in to see the king just like the queen wanted him to; and he saw the king, knowin' right then he wasn’t dead.
He told the queen: "He ain't dead, just sleepin' in God, and come tomorrow, he’ll be back up again; so don’t go buryin' him."
Then Ammon asked her: "Do ya believe this?" She replied: "I ain’t had no proof except your word and what our folks say; still, I reckon it’ll be just like you said."
And Ammon said to her: "You’re mighty blessed ‘cause you got such a strong faith; I tell ya, lady, there ain't been faith like yours among all the Nephites."
Well, it came to pass that she kept a watch over her husband’s bed, from that time until the next mornin' when Ammon had said he'd rise up.
Sure enough, he got up, just like Ammon said; and as he rose, he reached out his hand to the woman, sayin': "Blessed be the name of God, and you’re blessed too."
For as sure as you’re breathin’, look here, I seen my Redeemer; and He’s gonna come out, born of a woman, an’ He’ll save all folks who believe in His name. Now, when he said that, his heart felt like it was about to burst, and then he sunk back down with joy; and the queen fell down too, overtaken by the Spirit.
Now Ammon, seein' the Spirit of the Lord all poured out ‘cause of his prayers over the Lamanites, his kinfolk who’d caused so much heartache among the Nephites, he dropped to his knees, pourin' out his heart in prayer and thanks to God for what He'd done for his folks; he was feelin’ overjoyed too, and all three of ‘em just ended up fallin' to the ground.
Then, when the king's servants noticed they had all fell down, they started cryin' out to God, ‘cause the fear of the Lord hit ‘em too, since they was the ones who had stood before the king and told him about Ammon's great power.
So, they started shoutin' on the name of the Lord with all their might, until they all fell to the ground, except for one woman from the Lamanites named Abish, who had been converted to the Lord for many years, thanks to a wild vision her daddy had—
Having been turned to the Lord and never told nobody, she saw all them servants of Lamoni had tumbled to the ground, and her queen and the king, and poor Ammon layin' flat out, she knew it was the power of God; and thinkin' this was her chance to let folks know what was goin' on, she figured that showin’ ‘em this scene would make ‘em believe in God’s power, so she took off runnin' from house to house spreadin’ the word.
They started gatherin’ at the king's house. A whole crowd showed up, and much to their shock, they seen the king, the queen, and their servants all laid out like they was dead; and they clocked Ammon too and realized, he was a Nephite.
Now folks started gettin’ all mixed up talkin’ among themselves; some complained it was some terrible trouble that had come upon ‘em, or on the king and his folks, since he let the Nephite stay in the land.
But others scolded ‘em, sayin': "The king done brought this trouble on himself, ‘cause he killed his servants who had their flocks scattered at the waters of Sebus."
And them men who had been at Sebus, scatterin' the king's flocks, was mad at Ammon for all the kin he’d taken down over there while protectin’ the king’s sheep.
Now, one of 'em, whose brother had been taken down by Ammon, was fit to be tied with anger, pulled out his sword, and went after Ammon tryin’ to take him out; but as he lifted his sword up to strike him, down he went, dead as a doornail.
Now, we can see Ammon just couldn’t be harmed, ‘cause the Lord had said to Mosiah, his daddy: “I’ll protect him, just like you’ve got faith.” So Mosiah put his trust in God for Ammon.
And it came to pass that when the crowd saw that fella drop dead who’d tried to take out Ammon, fear swept over 'em, and they didn’t dare touch Ammon or any of the ones who had fallen; they started marvelin’ again at what in the world could be the cause of this great power, and what all this commotion could mean.
Well, there was plenty among ‘em sayin’ Ammon was the Great Spirit, while others said he was sent by that same Great Spirit;
But others rebuked all that, claimin’ he was just a monster sent by the Nephites to torment ‘em.
Then some said Ammon was sent by the Great Spirit to mess with ‘em ‘cause they was bein’ sinful; that the Great Spirit had always been lookin’ out for the Nephites, deliverin' them from all their troubles; and they said it was that Great Spirit who had wiped out so many of their own kin, the Lamanites.
And so, the arguments got real heated-like among ‘em. While they was all fussin', that woman servant who got the crowd together came back, and when she saw the fussin’ goin’ on, she felt awful sad, startin' to tear up.
Then she went over and took the queen by the hand, hopin' to lift her up from the ground; and as soon as she touched her hand, she popped right up and stood on her feet, cryin’ out loud: "O blessed Jesus, who saved me from a terrible hell! O blessed God, have mercy on these folks!"
When she said that, she clasped her hands with joy, chattin’ a whole lot of words nobody could make heads or tails of; and when she was done, she took the king, Lamoni, by the hand, and lo and behold, he got right up and stood on his feet.
And he, seein' the ruckus among his folks, stepped on out and started scoldin' them, teachin' ‘em the words he’d heard from Ammon; and all who listened believed and turned to the Lord.
But there were plenty who wouldn’t hear a word he said; so they just wandered off.
And it came to pass that when Ammon got up, he also went to minister to ‘em, just like all the servants of Lamoni did; and they all told the people the same ol' thing—that their hearts had been changed; that they didn’t want to do no more wrong.
And lots declared to the folks that they had seen angels and had talked to ‘em; and so they was tellin’ 'em the stuff about God and His goodness.
Then it came to pass that many believed what they said; and just as many who believed got baptized; and they turned into a righteous people, set up a church among ‘em.
And that’s how the Lord’s work got rollin’ among the Lamanites; thus the Lord started pourin’ out His Spirit on ‘em; and we see His hand reachin’ out to all who’ll repent and believe in His name.
