Well, lemme tell ya, right at the start of this here fifth year they was some serious squabblin’ goin’ on amongst the folks. Now, there was this feller named Amlici, and let me tell ya, he was slicker than a greased pig—smart as a whip when it came to the ways of the world, kinda like that feller who took Gideon down real quick with a sword, and he paid for it, sure as shootin'.
So this Amlici, with his smooth talkin’, he managed to wrangle up a whole passel of folks to follow him, so much so that they got pretty strong and started thinkin’ ‘bout makin’ Amlici their king.
Now, this put a bee in the bonnet of the good folks at church and those who didn’t fall for Amlici’s charm. They knew good and well that according to their laws, any changes gotta come from the voice of the people.
So if Amlici was able to sweet-talk his way into the heart of the people, this no-good feller was fixin’ to take away their rights and privileges over at the church, ‘cause his heart was set on bringin’ down the church of God.
Then all the folks huddled up across the land, each group pullin’ for or against Amlici, arguin’ and fussin' like a bunch of roosters in a barnyard.
So, they got together to figure out which way the wind was blowin’ and all ‘em voices were brought before the judges.
It turned out that the good folks spoke out against Amlici, sayin’ he ain’t gonna be king ‘round there.
Well now, that brought a whole heap of happiness to the folks who didn’t want him, but Amlici stirred up his own crew to be mad at everyone else.
Eventually, they all gathered up and made ol’ Amlici their king.
Once Amlici had that fancy crown on his head, he told his followers to pick up their weapons and go against their own kin. The man just wanted to have ‘em under his thumb.
So the followers of Amlici went by the name Amlicites, while the rest stuck with Nephites, or God’s people.
Now them Nephites had a good idea what Amlici and his gang were up to, and they weren’t about to sit back. They got all armed up with swords, cimeters, bows and arrows, stones, slings—you name it—they had it all ready for a fight.
So when them Amlicites finally came a-callin’, the Nephites were all prepped and ready. They even set up captains and all them higher-ups, dependin’ on how many showed up.
And it came to pass that Amlici armed his fellas too, givin’ ‘em all sorts of weapons and puttin’ leaders in charge to get them riled up for battle.
They marched right up to the hill Amnihu, east of the river Sidon, right by the land of Zarahemla, and let the war begin with the Nephites.
Alma, the head judge and governor of the Nephites, gathered his folks, including his captains and big chiefs, and went straight into battle against the Amlicites.
They started takin’ out the Amlicites on that hill east of Sidon. But those Amlicites weren’t goin’ down easy, they put up one heck of a fight, makin’ lots of Nephites fall like rain.
But bless their hearts, the Lord gave the Nephites some strength, and they began to take down the Amlicites somethin’ fierce, chasin’ ‘em off like scared rabbits.
They kept after ‘em all day long, takin’ ‘em down ‘til twelve thousand five hundred thirty-two Amlicites bit the dust, while the Nephites lost six thousand five hundred sixty-two souls.
Then, when Alma couldn’t keep chasin’ the Amlicites no more, he had his folks set up camp in the valley of Gideon, named after that Gideon who got taken out by Nehor, and that’s where the Nephites laid their heads for the night.
Alma sent some spies out to follow what was left of the Amlicites, tryin’ to figure out their plans so he could protect his folks from bein’ wiped out.
Now the ones he sent out to keep an eye on the Amlicites were named Zeram, Amnor, Manti, and Limher; these folks went out with their crew to keep watch.
And it came to pass the next day they rushed back to camp, all wide-eyed and rattled, shoutin':
“Y’all ain’t gonna believe this! We tracked the Amlicites, and let me tell ya, up in the land of Minon, just over the land of Zarahemla, we spotted a whole heap of Lamanites; looks like the Amlicites joined up with ‘em!”
And they were after our kin in that land, chasin’ ‘em off with their flocks, wives, and kiddos headin’ straight for our city. If we don’t hurry, they’ll take our city and our families will be in big trouble.
So the Nephites packed up their tents and headed out of the valley of Gideon toward their city, that fancy place called Zarahemla.
Now as they was crossin’ the river Sidon, the Lamanites and Amlicites swarmed them like ants at a picnic, lookin’ to wipe ‘em out.
But those Nephites, with the Lord backin’ ‘em up, prayin’ with all their might to be saved from their enemies, got their prayers answered strong, and those Lamanites and Amlicites started fallin’ before them.
And it came to pass that Alma faced off with Amlici swingin' swords, goin’ at it real hard, both of ‘em givin’ it everything they got.
Alma, bein’ a man of God with plenty of faith, cried out, sayin’, “Oh Lord, have mercy and let me live! I wanna be an instrument in Your hands to save and protect these folks!”
Now after sayin’ that, Alma got back into the fray with Amlici, and he felt that strength to take Amlici down with his sword.
Then Alma had to tussle with the king of the Lamanites; but that ol' king got scared and hightailed it outta there, sendin’ his guards to take on Alma instead.
But Alma and his crew went toe-to-toe with the king's guards till they drove ‘em back and took ‘em down.
And so he cleared the ground, or rather the bank, on the west side of the river Sidon, tossin’ the slain Lamanites into the river so his folks could cross and face off with the Lamanites and Amlicites on the other side.
And when they all crossed that river Sidon, the Lamanites and Amlicites skedaddled before them, even with how many there were, tryin’ to get away.
They took off toward the wilderness west and north, far outside the land’s borders, while the Nephites chased ‘em down and took ‘em out.
Yep, they met ‘em on every side, takin’ ‘em down till they scattered ‘em out west and north, till they landed in a wild ol’ wilderness called Hermounts, infested with all sorts of beasts.
Many a soul died there in the wild from their wounds, and them beasts and vultures snatched ‘em up; their bones piled high on the ground like forgotten memories.
