An account of the preachin' of Aaron, and Muloki, and their buddies, to the Lamanites.
Comprises them chapters through 25.
Well, now when Ammon and his buddies split ways at the edge of the Lamanite land, old Aaron took off towards the spot the Lamanites called Jerusalem, named after the land where their folks were born; it was over yonder near the borders of Mormon.
Now them Lamanites and Amalekites and the folks from Amulon done built up a big ol’ city, and they called it Jerusalem.
Now, them Lamanites was tough as nails, but the Amalekites and the Amulonites were even rougher; they was makin' the Lamanites harden their hearts, gettin' real strong in their wicked ways and nasty deeds.
And it came to pass that Aaron rolled into the city of Jerusalem and started preachin’ to them Amalekites first. He got to talkin’ to 'em in their synagogues, since they went and built 'em up all fancy-like after the Nehors; turns out a whole bunch of 'em were followin’ that Nehor way.
So, as Aaron strolled into one of them synagogues to share the good word, while he was yappin', an Amalekite popped up and started arguin' with him, sayin': "What the heck are ya praisin' about? You seen an angel? Why ain’t no angels comin’ to see us? Ain't us folks just as good as you?"
And he also said, "You keep sayin' if we don't change our ways, we're gonna go down in flames. How do you know what's goin' on in our hearts? You got proof we gotta repent? How do you know we're not righteous folks? Look at us, we built ourselves places to worship, and we all get together to honor God. We reckon God'll save everyone.”
Aaron looked at him and asked, “You really think the Son of God’s comin’ to save folks from their sins?”
And the fella shot back, “We don’t reckon you know nothin’ about that. We ain't buyin’ into them silly traditions. Folks around here don’t believe you’re privy to what’s comin’, nor do we think your daddies knew what they was talkin’ ‘bout either.”
Then Aaron got to crackin' open them scriptures for 'em, talkin’ 'bout Christ comin' and the resurrection, lettin' 'em know that no one could get redeemed 'less it was through the sufferin’ and death of Christ, and that blood atonement deal.
Well, as he was layin’ it all out, they got plenty mad at him, started makin’ fun, and they just wouldn't listen to a word that came outta his mouth.
So, seein’ they wouldn’t lend an ear, he hightailed it outta their synagogue and made his way over to a little spot called Ani-Anti, where he found Muloki preachin’ to the folks; and Ammah and the rest of his buddies was there too. They were wranglin’ with a bunch of folks 'bout the word.
And it came to pass they noticed them folks were hardenin’ their hearts, so they moved along and headed over to the land of Middoni. They preached to a whole lot of folks, but not many took to what they was sayin’.
Yet and still, ol' Aaron and some of his buddies got grabbed and tossed in the pokey, and the rest of 'em skedaddled outta Middoni to parts nearby.
Them that got thrown in the clink sure suffered a heap, but they got freed thanks to Lamoni and Ammon, and they were fed and got some clothes.
Then they took off again to spread the word, and that was their first taste of freedom from prison; and they sure went through it.
They wandered wherever the Spirit led 'em, preachin' God’s word in every synagogue of the Amalekites, or in every get-together of the Lamanites they was welcome in.
As time went on, the Lord started blessin’ them, and before long, they was bringin’ a bunch to the truth; yep, they convinced many folks of their wrongdoings and the not-so-right traditions of their daddies.
Then Ammon and Lamoni headed back from Middoni to the land of Ishmael, the land they called home.
Now king Lamoni wouldn’t allow Ammon to be his servant or work for him.
But he made sure they had them synagogues built in Ishmael, and he had his people, all those under his rule, gather together.
He was mighty pleased with ‘em, taught ‘em a whole heap of things, and he let ‘em know they was under him, but they was free folks, free from his daddy’s oppressive ways; his daddy had given him the chance to rule over the folks in Ishmael and all around it.
And he also let ‘em know they could worship the Lord their God however they liked, no matter where they were, as long as they was in the land ruled by king Lamoni.
And Ammon preached to king Lamoni’s folks, teachin’ 'em all about livin’ righteously. He was on ‘em daily, puttin’ in the work, and they listened up to what he said, gettin' real eager to keep God’s commandments.
