Well now, while Ammon was chattin' up the folks in Lamoni, let’s head back to Aaron and his buddies; after he split from Middoni, he felt that ol' Spirit leadin' him down to Nephi, goin' right to the king’s house, the big cheese over the land, ‘cept for Ishmael’s turf; he was Lamoni’s daddy, ya know?
So Aaron waltzed into the king’s palace with his pals, gave a nod to the king, and said: “Hey there, King, we’re the brothers of Ammon, the fella you busted outta jail."
Then Aaron added, "Now, if ya don’t mind savin’ our necks, we’ll be your humble servants.” But the king shot back, “Get up now, I ain’t gonna have you two as my servants; I’d rather you help me out. I’ve been sittin’ here scratchin' my head ‘cause of the fancy talk from your brother Ammon, and I’m itchin' to know why he didn’t tag along from Middoni with ya.”
Aaron told the king, “Well, the Spirit of the Lord nudged him in a different direction; he headed off to Ishmael to teach Lamoni’s folks.”
The king frowned and asked, “What’s all this about the Spirit of the Lord? It's got my mind all twisted up.”
He also wanted to know about Ammon’s sayin'—"If y’all repent, you’ll be saved, but if ya don’t, you’ll be booted at the end of days?"
Aaron looked right at him and asked, “Do ya believe there’s a God?” The king replied, “Well, I reckon the Amalekites think there’s a God, and I let 'em build some places to worship. If you’re sayin' there’s a God, then count me in, I’ll believe.”
Upon hearin’ this, Aaron’s heart began to sing, and he said, “Well, I swear as you’re livin’, O king, there surely is a God.”
The king asked, “Is He that Great Spirit that led our forefathers outta Jerusalem?”
Aaron answered, “Yup, that’s Him! He made everything, both up in the heavens and down here on earth. You believe that?”
The king nodded and said, “Sure do, I reckon the Great Spirit created it all. Now I’d love it if you told me ‘bout everything, and I’ll believe ya.”
So, when Aaron saw the king was ready to believe, he kicked off talkin’ ‘bout the creation of Adam, readin' them scriptures to the king—how God made man in His image and handed down commandments, then 'cause of their choices, man ended up fallin’.
Aaron laid it out for the king from Adam’s creation, explainin’ how folks fell and were stuck in their earthly nature, plus the whole redemption plan that God set up from the very start for anyone who believes on Christ’s name.
And since man had taken a tumble, he couldn’t earn nothin’ on his own; it was Christ’s sufferin’ and death that forgave sins, through faith and changin’ ways, and that’s how He breaks the chains of death—death's defeat wouldn’t hold sway, not with the promise of glory; and Aaron shared all this good news with the king.
Once Aaron wrapped up his talk, the king asked, “What do I gotta do to grab hold of this eternal life you mentioned? How can I be born of God, kick this wicked spirit outta my heart, and fill up with His Spirit so I can be happy and not get left behind at the end? I’d be ready to give up everythin’, even my crown, to know this great joy.”
Aaron replied, “Well, if ya really want this, then ya gotta bow down before God, repent of all your mess, and call on His name with faith, believein' you’ll receive it, then you’ll find the hope you’re lookin' for.”
And when Aaron finished sayin’ all that, the king got down on his knees; that fella laid himself flat on the ground, cryin’ out strong like:
“O God, Aaron just told me there’s a God; and if that’s true, will ya show yourself to me? I’ll lay down all my sins just to know you and get up from the dead, be saved at the end of days.” And once the king said all that, it was like he was hit with a bolt, just dropped there like a sack of potatoes.
Next thing ya know, his servants ran to tell the queen what went down with the king. She rushed in to see him layin' there like he was a goner, and when she spotted Aaron and his crew lookin’ like they’d caused his collapse, her temper flared up, and she ordered her folks to take them out back and finish ‘em off.
But them servants figured out what was really behind the king takin’ a spill, so they weren’t about to lay a finger on Aaron and his pals. They pleaded with her, “Why you wanna off these fellas when one of ‘em’s tougher than a grizzly? We’d be lunch meat if we tried!”
Once the queen caught on to how spooked her crew was, she started getting all jittery herself, worried some bad stuff might fall right on her. So, she told her folks to round up the crowd so they could go take care of Aaron and his buddies.
When Aaron caught wind of the queen’s plan, knowin’ folks could get real rowdy, he got worried a big ol' crowd might gather and things could get outta hand, so he stepped forward and lifted the king up from the ground, tellin’ him: “Stand up now.” And just like that, he was back on his feet, feelin’ stronger than a bull.
This all went down right in front of the queen and a bunch of her servants. They were left wide-eyed and shaken, and then the king stepped up and started attendin’ to ‘em. He took care of ‘em so well that soon enough, his whole family turned their hearts to the Lord.
Now, a whole crowd started showin’ up ‘cause of what the queen ordered, and soon there was a whole lot of grumblin’ ‘bout Aaron and his mates.
But the king stepped in and soothed ‘em; he calmed ‘em down towards Aaron and his crew.
When the king saw that things were settlin’, he had Aaron and his brothers get up front in the midst of the crowd to preach the word to ‘em.
And then, the king sent out word across the whole land, callin' all his folks who lived everywhere—from one ocean to the other, even the bits right next to the water on the east and west, all around the edges of the sea and the wild land, which was just separated from Zarahemla by a narrow stretch of wilderness, runnin’ from the east sea to the west sea—this is how the Lamanites and Nephites ended up spilt apart.
Now, the loafin’ Lamanites were kickin' it in the wilderness, livin’ in tents; they were spread out westward in Nephi’s land, and even to the west of Zarahemla, close to the ocean and all that.
And there was a bunch of Lamanites sittin’ pretty on the east by the sea where the Nephites pushed ‘em. So the Nephites were almost completely surrounded by those Lamanites; but they held onto all the northern parts by the wilderness that runs alongside Sidon’s river, stretchin' from the east all the way to the west, goin' ‘round the wild area; on the north, they reached up to the land they called Bountiful.
Now, that territory bordered on a place they named Desolation, so far north it led into a land folks used to live in that got wiped out, which was found by them from Zarahemla, where they first landed.
Then they made their way down into the south wilderness. So, that land up north was called Desolation, and the land down south got tagged as Bountiful, filled with all sorts of wild critters, some of which journeyed down from the north for grub.
And ya see, it was just a day and a half’s walk for a Nephite between Bountiful and Desolation, from the east to the west sea; so, the lands of Nephi and Zarahemla were pretty much surrounded by water, only a little neck of land separated the north from the south.
And it came to pass the Nephites made their home in Bountiful, stretchin' from the east to the west sea, and in their cleverness, they set up guards and armies to keep the Lamanites from movin' north so they wouldn’t take over that land.
So, the Lamanites were left with only Nephi’s land and the wilds around it. And this was some smart thinkin' on the Nephites’ part—since the Lamanites were their enemies, they weren’t about to let ‘em get a grip on ‘em, and they needed a place to retreat if things got sticky.
Now, just to tie things up, I’m headin' back to Ammon, Aaron, Omner, Himni, and their other brothers’ story.
