Well, lemme tell ya, the king of them Lamanites done sent a word out to all his folks, sayin’ they best not lay a finger on Ammon, Aaron, Omner, or Himni, or none of their kin who was out there preachin’ the Good Word, no matter where they roamed in their neck of the woods.
Yessiree, he sent ‘em a decree, tellin’ ‘em they couldn’t lay hands on ‘em to tie ‘em up, or toss ‘em in jail; no spittin’ on ‘em, hittin’ ‘em, tossin’ ‘em outta their churches, or givin’ ‘em a whippin’; and they surely couldn’t chuck no stones either, but that them preachers could waltz right into their homes, temples, and sacred spaces without a hitch.
So, they could go on and preach to their heart’s content, seein’ as the king had found his way to the Lord, along with his whole family; that’s why he sent out the word all across the land, so the Good Word wouldn’t hit no roadblocks, but could spread far and wide, helpin’ his folks figure out all them bad ways taught by their daddies, and knowin’ they’re all kinfolk, meanin’ they shouldn't be murderin’, plunderin’, stealin’, cheatin’ on their spouses, or indulgin’ in any sort of wrongdoings.
Well, after the king got that proclamation out, Aaron and his pals took off from town to town, hittin’ up one church after another, settin’ up congregations, and ordainin’ priests and teachers all ‘round among them Lamanites, preachin’ and teachin’ the Good Word to ‘em; and let me tell ya, they started seein' some real good results.
And thousands found their way to knowin’ the Lord, I reckon; yep, thousands came to believe in all them Nephite ways, bein’ taught the records and prophecies that been passed down to this very day.
And as sure as the Lord’s alive, I tell ya, all them who believed in what Ammon and his brothers were preachin’, and who got to knowin’ the truth through the spirit of revelation and prophecy, plus the Lord doin’ miracles in their lives—yep, I’ll say it again, as the Lord’s got breath in His lungs, all them Lamanites who believed what they heard and turned to the Lord, they never turned back.
‘Cause they became good folks; they put down them weapons of rebellion, and they didn’t go fightin’ against God no more, nor against any of their kinfolk.
Now, these here are the ones who turned to the Lord:
Folks from the Lamanites livin' in the land of Ishmael;
And folks from the Lamanites in the land of Middoni;
And also, them folks from the Lamanites in the city of Nephi;
And those Lamanites in the land of Shilom, as well as them in the land of Shemlon, and in the city of Lemuel, and Shimnilom too.
And here’s the names of the Lamanite towns that turned to the Lord; they all laid down them weapons of rebellion, yessir, all their war togs; and every last one of ‘em was Lamanites.
But as for the Amalekites, they didn’t come ‘round, ‘cept for one; and them Amulonites, they didn’t budge neither; they just hardened their hearts, and got them Lamanites riled up in that part of the land where they hung out, yes, all their little villages and towns.
So, we went ahead and named all them towns of the Lamanites where they repented and came to know the truth, and turned their lives around.
Now, it came to pass that the king and his newly-converted folks were itchin’ to have a name for themselves, so they wouldn’t be confused with their kin; so the king went and jawed with Aaron and a whole bunch of their priests, ‘bout what name they oughta take to set themselves apart.
And sure enough, they ended up callin’ themselves Anti-Nephi-Lehies; from then on out, they weren’t called Lamanites no more.
And then they went on to be a real hard-workin’ bunch; yep, they made friendly with the Nephites, and they even opened up a line of communication with ‘em, and the Lord’s curse didn’t trail after ‘em no more.
