Well, it all happened that them Amalekites, Amulonites, and Lamanites who were hangin' around down in Amulon, Helam, and Jerusalem, and pretty much all them places nearby, who hadn’t joined up with the folks goin’ by Anti-Nephi-Lehi, got all riled up by the Amalekites and the Amulonites and started gettin’ mad at their own kin.
And their hatred got real strong, so much so that they started rebel yellin’ against their king, sayin' they ain't want him callin’ the shots no more; so they picked up their guns and aimed ‘em at the Anti-Nephi-Lehi folks.
Well, the king handed over his crown to his boy, and he named him Anti-Nephi-Lehi.
And that king kicked the bucket that same year when them Lamanites started gearin’ up for a showdown with the good people of God.
Now, when Ammon and his bros, along with all them who came with him, spotted the Lamanites gettin' ready to stomp their kin out, they made their way to the land of Midian, and there Ammon ran into all his brothers; from there, they headed over to the land of Ishmael to have a chin-wag with Lamoni and his bro Anti-Nephi-Lehi about how they oughta defend themselves against those Lamanites.
Now, there ain’t a soul among them who had turned their life around for the Lord who’d even think about pickin' up arms against their kin; nope, they wouldn’t even think about gettin' ready for a fight; and their king told ‘em not to either.
Now, these are the words he laid out to his folks 'bout the whole deal: I’m mighty grateful to my God, my cherished folks, that our great God has been kind enough to send our brothers, the Nephites, over here to preach to us and show us the mess we got from our wicked daddies.
And let me tell ya, I thank my great God for givin’ us a little taste of His Spirit to smooth down our hearts so we could start chatin’ with these fine brothers, the Nephites.
And check it out, I’m also thankful to my God that by startin’ this chatter, we figured out just how deep in sin we’ve been, and all the awful things we've done.
And I’m real thankful to my God, yeah, my great God, that He’s let us have a chance to turn over a new leaf and forgave us for all them sins and murders we’ve committed, takin’ that guilt off our hearts ‘cause of His Son’s goodness.
And now, my brothers, since we were the most lost folks around and it took all our might just to repent of all our sins and those many murderin’ we’ve done, and gettin’ God to wipe 'em off our hearts, ‘cause that’s all we could do to make things right—
Now, my most beloved brothers, since God’s washed our stains away and our swords are shinin’ bright, let’s not be dirtyin’ ‘em up again with our kin’s blood.
Listen here, I tell ya, naw, let’s keep holdin’ on to our swords so they stay clean, ‘cause if we start makin’ ‘em dirty again, they won’t shine bright again through the blood of our great God’s Son, which is shed for settlin’ our wrongdoings.
And our great God has been merciful to us, showin’ us these truths so we don't go down the wrong road; yeah, He’s let us know ahead of time, ‘cause He loves our souls just as much as He loves our little ones; that’s why He sends His angels our way, so we can know the plan of salvation, both now and for them who come after us.
Oh, how merciful is our God! And look here, since it’s been a struggle just to get washed clean, and our swords are bright now, let’s stash 'em away so they’ll stay bright as a witness to our God on Judgement Day, or the day we gotta stand before Him to be judged, that we haven’t let our swords be stained with our own kin’s blood since He blessed us with His word and made us pure.
And now, my brothers, if our brethren are plannin’ on takin’ us out, we’ll tuck our swords away, yeah, we’ll bury ‘em deep in the dirt to keep ‘em shiny, as proof that we never lifted 'em against anybody, come that big ol’ day; and if our kin take us down, well, we’ll head to our God and be saved.
And it came to pass that when the king wrapped up his words, and all the folks were gathered up, they took their swords and all the other weapons used to spill blood and went and buried ‘em deep in the ground.
And they did this thinkin’ it was a testimony to God, and also to folks, that they weren’t gonna use any weapons for spillin’ blood anymore; and they did this swearin’ a promise to God, that rather than spill their brethren’s blood, they’d give up their own lives; and instead of robbin' a brother, they’d lend a hand; and rather than be lazy, they’d work hard with their hands.
And so we see that when them Lamanites finally came to see the light and knowin’ the truth, they stood firm, even willin’ to take a hit rather than do wrong; and so we see they buried their peace-keepin’ weapons or they buried the war stuff for peace.
And it came to pass that them Lamanites got all riled up for war and came up to the land of Nephi to knock off the king and put another in his place, and to wipe out the Anti-Nephi-Lehi folks from the land.
Now when the people saw 'em comin’ at ‘em, they went out to greet 'em, throwin' themselves down to the ground, callin’ on the name of the Lord; and that’s how they were when the Lamanites started crashing down on ‘em, sword in hand.
And without any fight back, they took out a thousand and five of 'em; and we know they’re blessed, ‘cause they’ve gone off to be with their God.
Now when the Lamanites saw their brothers wouldn't run from the fight, nor would they step aside, but were willin’ to lay down and die, shoutin’ praises to God while takin’ the hit—
Now when the Lamanites saw this, they chilled on the killin'; and plenty of ‘em felt sorrow in their hearts for their brethren who had fallen, regrettin’ what they’d done.
And it came to pass that they tossed down their weapons of war and refused to pick ‘em back up, ‘cause they felt real bad for all the murders they had done; and they came down just like their brothers, dependin’ on the mercy of them whose hands were raised to strike ‘em down.
And it came to pass that the good folks of God gained more numbers that day than those who had been killed; and those who had been slain were good people, so we got no reason to doubt they went to a better place.
Not one wicked soul was taken down among ‘em; but more than a thousand of ‘em found out the truth; thus we see that the Lord sure does work in all kinds of ways to save His people.
Now the biggest bunch of those Lamanites who wiped out so many of their brethren were the Amalekites and Amulonites, most of 'em followin' the ways of the Nehors.
Now, hangin’ with those who decided to join God’s crew, there weren’t no Amalekites or Amulonites, nor any of them Nehor kinds, but rather they were straight-up descendants of Laman and Lemuel.
And so we can see clear as day, that once folks have had the light of God’s Spirit shinin’ on 'em, and knowin' good things about bein’ right, and then slip up into sin and mischief, they get hard as a rock, and their state turns worse than if they had never known nothin’ at all.
