Well, lemme tell ya, them Lamanites got real mad, 'cause they done killed their own kin. They swore to get even with the Nephites, but they didn’t bother messin' with the folks from Anti-Nephi-Lehi right then. 
So, they gathered up their army and crossed over into them Zarahemla parts, pouncin' on the folks livin' in Ammonihah and wiped 'em out. 
After that, they fought a whole lotta skirmishes with the Nephites, but they just kept gettin' pushed back and took a heap of losses. 
Among those they lost was most of Amulon’s kids and his pals, them priests of Noah, all done in by the Nephites' hand. 
The ones that managed to skedaddle took off into the eastern wilds, and somehow ended up takin' charge over the other Lamanites, causin' a whole mess of 'em to perish by fire 'cause of what they believed. 
See, lots of 'em, after sufferin’ so many losses and troubles, started to remember what Aaron and his buddies had preached in their neck of the woods; so they began doubting their family traditions and puttin' their faith in the Good Lord, thinkin' that he sure gave a lotta power to the Nephites, and a bunch of 'em got converted out in the wilderness. 
But, lemme tell ya, those rulers left of Amulon's kids had 'em put to death, you bet, anyone who believed that stuff. 
Well, all this martyr stuff got a whole bunch of their kin riled up, and there was a big ol’ fuss in the wilderness; the Lamanites started huntin' down Amulon’s kin and took to killin’ 'em, so they ran off into the east wilds. 
And wouldn't ya know it, they still bein' hunted by them Lamanites today. Ain't that just what Abinadi prophesied 'bout the priests' kids causin' him to burn at the stake? 
He told 'em straight-up what they did to him would be a sign of things to come. 
Now, Abinadi, he was the first to get burned 'cause he believed in God; what he meant was that many folks would face the same fate he did. 
He warned them priests of Noah that their children would cause all sorts of folks to get knocked off just like he did, and they'd be scattered and slain, much like a sheep without a shepherd is hunted down by wild critters. And lo and behold, that’s how it went down: they were driven, hunted, and struck down by them Lamanites. 
Then, when the Lamanites figured they couldn't overpower the Nephites, they went back home; lots of 'em even moved into the land of Ishmael and Nephi, joinin' up with the people of God, who were the Anti-Nephi-Lehi folks. 
They buried their weapons like their pals did, started bein’ a righteous bunch, walkin' in the Lord's ways and keepin' his commandments and rules. 
Yep, they even held onto the law of Moses, 'cause they figured they needed it still since it wasn’t all fulfilled yet. But even with that law, they looked forward to Christ comin’, seein’ Moses’ law as just hintin’ at what was to come, knowin’ they needed to keep up those outward practices 'til He showed up. 
They weren't thinkin' salvation came from the law of Moses, but the law sure helped 'em have faith in Christ; and so they held onto hope through faith, aiming for eternal life, leanin' on the spirit of prophecy that talked about the future. 
And now, looky here, Ammon, Aaron, Omner, Himni, and their buddies were just over the moon happy for the success they had with them Lamanites, seein’ that the Lord answered their prayers and backed up His word to ‘em at every turn.
