Ammon's got some pride in the Lord—The faithful, they're gettin' their strength from Him and gainin' wisdom—By puttin' their faith in Him, folks can save a whole bunch of souls—God's got all the power and understands everything. ’Round about 90–77 B.C.
Now, let me tell ya what Ammon said to his brothers: My brothers, I’m tellin’ ya, we got all kinds of reasons to be happy; could we have thought back when we left Zarahemla that God would shower us with such big ol’ blessings?
So I'm askin', what kinda blessings has He given us? Y’all got an idea?
Well, let me just say it for ya; our buddies, the Lamanites, they were sittin' in darkness, yep, right in the deepest hole, but looky here, how many of 'em are now seein' the amazin' light of God! That there’s the blessing we got, bein’ tools in God’s hands to do this big ol' job.
Y’all see, thousands of ‘em are rejoicin’, and they've found their place in God's fold.
Looky here, the harvest was ripe, and bless your hearts, ‘cause y’all put the sickle to it and worked hard all day long; y’all see how many sheaves you got! And they’re gonna be gathered up so nothin' goes to waste.
Yep, they ain't gonna get knocked down by the storm when the end comes; nope, they ain't gonna get all tossed around by the whirlwinds; when the storm rolls in, they’ll be gathered in the right spot so that storm can’t touch ‘em; and they sure ain't gonna be blown where the enemy wants to take 'em.
But listen, they're in the Lord's hands, the Lord of the harvest, and they belong to Him; and He'll lift 'em up at the last day.
Praise the name of our God; let’s sing us a song of thanks, yes indeed, let’s be grateful for His holy name, ‘cause He’s doin’ right by us forever.
'Cause if we hadn’t left Zarahemla, our dearly beloved brothers, who cherish us so much, would still be filled with hate towards us, and they’d be strangers to God too.
Well, when Ammon said all this, his brother Aaron had a word for him, sayin’: Ammon, I reckon your happiness is makin' you a bit too proud.
But Ammon said: I ain't braggin' 'bout my own strength or smarts; no sir, my joy's overflowing, and my heart’s just full of happiness, and I’m gonna be happy in my God.
Yeah, I know I ain't nothin’; I’m weak when it comes to my own strength; so I ain't gonna boast about myself, but I'll surely brag on my God, 'cause in His strength, I can do just about anything; you better believe we’ve done some mighty miracles in this land, and we’re gonna praise His name forevermore.
Look here, how many thousands of our brothers has He freed from the pains of hell; and now they’re singin' songs of love and redemption, all thanks to the power of His word that’s in us, so don't we have a big ol’ reason to celebrate?
Yes sir, we got all the reasons to give Him thanks forever, ‘cause He’s the Most High God, and He’s freed our brothers from the chains of hell.
Sure ‘nuff, they were stuck in endless darkness and destruction; but looky here, He’s brought ‘em into His never-endin’ light, into everlasting salvation; and they’re wrapped up in the incredible bounty of His love; and here we are, bein’ His instruments in doin’ this great work.
So let’s boast, yeah, we’ll boast in the Lord; let’s celebrate, ‘cause our joy is full; we’ll shout praises to our God for all time. Who can ever boast too much in the Lord? Who can say too much about His might, His mercy, and His patience with all of us humans? I tell you, I can't even begin to express what I feel inside.
Who would’ve ever thought that our God would be so kind as to pull us outta our awful, sinful state?
Look here, we went out there all full of rage, makin' big threats to wipe out His church.
So then, why didn’t He just send us to a terrible end, why didn’t He let His sword fall on us and condemn us to never-endin’ despair?
Oh, my soul almost flies away at just the thought. But seein’ as He didn’t exercise His justice on us, but in His great mercy, He’s carried us over that everlasting pit of death and misery, right to the salvation of our souls.
Now, look here, my brothers, what ordinary man knows these things? I tell ya, there's no one who knows 'em unless they’ve truly repented.
Yes, he who turns away from his wrongdoings and has faith, doin' good works, and prayin’ all the time—those folks get to know the mysteries of God; and it’ll be given to ‘em to reveal things that’ve never been revealed before; and they’ll be able to bring thousands of souls to repentance, just like we've been able to do.
Now, y’all remember when we told our brothers back in Zarahemla that we were headin’ up to Nephi to preach to the Lamanites, and they just laughed at us?
'Cause they said to us: You really think you can bring the Lamanites to know the truth? Do you really think you can change their minds about the crazy ideas their folks have passed down, bein' as stubborn as they are; whose hearts are all about spillin’ blood; who’ve spent their days in the deepest iniquity; and whose ways have been wrong since forever? Now my brothers, you remember how they talked.
They even said: Let’s take up arms against ‘em, let’s wipe ‘em out and rid the land of their sins, or they’ll overrun us and take us down.
But look, my dear brothers, we didn’t come into the wilderness with plans to destroy our brothers, but to see if we could save even a few of their souls.
Now when our spirits were low, and we were fixin’ to turn ‘round, behold, the Lord comforted us and said: Go on ‘mongst your brothers, the Lamanites, and bear your afflictions patiently, and I’ll give you success.
And look at us now, we went and mingled with ‘em; we’ve been patient through our troubles and have suffered every hardship; yeah, we’ve traveled from house to house, relying on the world’s kindness—and not just that but on God’s kindness too.
We’ve walked right into their homes and taught 'em, we’ve stood in the streets teachin’ ‘em; yes, we’ve climbed their hills to share the good word; we’ve even been in their temples and synagogues teachin’; we’ve been kicked out, ridiculed, spat on, slapped in the face; chain-bound and tossed in jail; and by the power and wisdom of God, we’ve been set free.
We’ve undergone all manner of hardships, and all this just to see if maybe we could save one soul; we thought our joy would be complete if we could save even just a few.
Well, now we can look and see the fruit of our labor; and are there only a few? I say no, there’s plenty; and we can see their true hearts, ‘cause they love their brothers and also us.
‘Cause see, they’d rather give up their lives than lay a hand on their enemy; and they’ve buried their weapons way down deep in the earth, all ‘cause they love their brothers.
Now I ask ya, has there ever been such great love in all the land? I say no, not even among the Nephites.
‘Cause you see, they’d take up arms against their brothers; they wouldn’t let themselves be killed. But look how many of these folks have laid down their lives for the cause; and we know they’re off to their God, all ‘cause of their love and their hatred for sin.
Ain’t we got reason to celebrate? I say, ain’t nobody had as much reason to rejoice as we have, since the world dawned; and my joy is just floatin’, even to braggin’ on my God; ‘cause He’s got all the power, all the wisdom, and all the understanding; He knows it all, and He’s a merciful Being, savin’ folks who will repent and believe in His name.
Now if this is braggin’, then I’ll be braggin'; ‘cause this is my life and my light, my joy and salvation, my redemptive escape from everlasting woe. Yes, bless the name of my God, who’s keepin’ an eye on this people, a branch from the tree of Israel, who got lost from its roots in a strange land; yes, bless the name of my God, who’s thinkin’ of us, wanderers in a foreign place.
Now my brothers, we see that God’s mindful of every people, no matter where they are; yep, He knows His people, and His mercy covers all the earth. Now this is my joy, and my great thankfulness; and I’m gonna give thanks to my God forever. Amen.
