Well now, the good Lord told Ammon to get them folks of Anti-Nephi-Lehi movin’ to safety—Once he met up with Alma, Ammon was so dang happy it nearly wore him out—The Nephites handed over the land of Jershon to them Anti-Nephi-Lehies—So they went on to be known as the people of Ammon. 'Bout 90–77 B.C.
So it happened, those Lamanites who went to tussle with the Nephites found out after tryin’ real hard to wipe 'em out, that it was all for nothin’, so they turned right back around to Nephi.
Well, them Amalekites, they got their feathers ruffled somethin’ fierce 'cause of their losses. And when they realized they couldn’t get back at the Nephites, they got to stirrin' up their folks to get real mad at their brothers, the Anti-Nephi-Lehies, and started tryin’ to take ‘em down again.
But this here bunch just refused to pick up arms again, lettin’ themselves be killed just like their enemies wanted.
Now, Ammon and his buddies seen this terrible sight among those they loved dearly, and those who loved them right back—for folks treated 'em like angels sent from the good Lord to save ‘em from hellfire—so when Ammon and his crew saw all this destruction, they felt a mighty compassion, and spoke to the king:
"Alright, let’s gather up the Lord’s people and skedaddle down to Zarahemla where our Nephite brothers are, and get outta reach of these enemies, so we ain’t wiped out."
But the king piped up, "Now hold on, the Nephites will do us dirty ‘cause of all the awful things we done to ‘em."
Ammon replied, "I’ll go ask the Lord, and if He tells us to go down to our kin, will y’all be ready?"
The king said, "Sure thing, if the Lord says to go, then we’ll head on down and be their slaves ‘til we pay back all the wrongs we done ‘em.”
But Ammon reminded him, "Now, it ain't right ‘cordin' to our kin’s law my daddy set up that there be any slaves among 'em; so let’s go trust in our brothers’ kindness."
The king still insisted, "Ask the Lord, and if He says go, then we’ll go; otherwise, we’ll just die right here."
So, Ammon went and asked the Lord, and the Lord told him:
"Get these folks outta this land, or they gon' be destroyed; for Satan got a mighty grip on the Amalekites' hearts, stirrin’ up the Lamanites to take a swing at their own brothers; so skedaddle outta here; and blessed are these folks in this time, 'cause I’ll keep 'em safe."
Then Ammon did just that and told the king everything the Lord said.
They got all their people together—yep, all the good folks—and rounded up all their livestock, then hit the road outta the land, makin’ their way through the wilderness that split Nephi from Zarahemla, gettin’ close to the borderlands.
And Ammon told ‘em, “Look here, me and my buddies are gonna head on over to Zarahemla, and y’all stay right here till we get back; we’ll see how our kin feel about you comin’ into their land.”
As Ammon was headin’ over, he ran into Alma in the spot folks been talkin’ about, and let me tell ya, that was one happy reunion.
Now, Ammon’s joy was so over the top he felt like he might burst; he got all wrapped up in the happiness of his God, till it just wore him out, and he fell right back down on the ground.
Wasn’t that just pure joy? Folks only feel that kinda joy if they’re truly sorry and lowly seekers of happiness.
Alma was mighty glad to see his buddies too, and so were Aaron, Omner, and Himni; but their joy didn’t knock ‘em flat like Ammon's did.
Then Alma led his pals back to Zarahemla, right to his own place. They told the chief judge all that gone down in Nephi with the Lamanites.
Next thing you know, the chief judge sent out a call across the land, lookin’ for what the people thought ‘bout lettin’ their brothers, the Anti-Nephi-Lehies, join ‘em.
And sure enough, the people spoke up: “Look, we’ll give up the land of Jershon, which sits on the east by the sea, connectin’ with the land Bountiful down south; and this here Jershon is the land we’re passin’ on to our brothers as their share.”
And they said, “We’ll set our armies up 'tween Jershon and Nephi, so we can keep our brothers safe in Jershon; we do this for ‘em ‘cause they’re scared to pick up arms against kin, worryin’ they might sin; and this fear of theirs comes from all the bad they done done before.”
Now, here’s the deal, we’re givin’ this land to our brothers so they can have Jershon; and we’ll protect ‘em from their enemies with our armies, on the condition they help us out some so we can keep our armies goin’.
Well, once Ammon caught wind of all this, he went back to the folks of Anti-Nephi-Lehi, with Alma right there beside him, into the wilderness where they had camped, and laid all this info on ‘em. And Alma shared his story about how he turned things around with Ammon and Aaron, and the rest of the crew.
This here news brought ‘em plenty of joy. They made their way down to Jershon and took over that piece of land; the Nephites named ‘em the people of Ammon, so from then on, that’s what they were known for.
They rolled right in with the Nephites, and also listed among the good folks of God's church. And they stood out for their zeal for the Lord and others; they were truly honest and straight shooters in everything; and they held rock-solid faith in Christ all the way to the end.
Them lot looked at spillin’ their brothers' blood with the highest disgust; they just couldn’t be convinced to pick up arms against their kin; and they never saw death with a speck of fear, what with their hope and thoughts on Christ and the resurrection; so death didn’t scare ‘em none, thanks to Christ winnin’ over death.
So, they’d take death in the most awful, distressin’ ways their brothers could dish out, ‘fore they’d take up the sword to strike back.
And that’s how they were—zealous and loved, a special people of the Lord.
