Well, lemme tell ya how it all went down. The Lamanites got their butts kicked in one humdinger of a fight—losin’ tens of thousands. The bad folks got sent off to a never-endin’ pit of misery; meanwhile, the good folks found themselves in a bliss that just don’t quit. 'Bout 77–76 B.C.  
Now, after them Ammon folks settled down all nice and cozy in Jershon, and they got themselves a church and all, the Nephite armies was sittin’ tight 'round Jershon, all the way out to the borders of Zarahemla; and wouldn’t you know it, the Lamanites traipsed right after their kin into the wild.
So you best believe there was one colossal fight happenin’, y’all; it was somethin’ that nobody had ever seen since Lehi skedaddled outta Jerusalem. Tens of thousands of those Lamanites bit the dust, scatterin’ like leaves in a storm.
Now, don’t get it twisted; there was some heavy losses on the Nephite side too, but they managed to chase off them Lamanites, and the Nephites made their way back home.
And let me tell ya, it was a time of deep sadness, y’know, folks wailin’ and grievin’ all over the place, among the Nephites—
With widows yellin’ for their husbands, dads cryin’ for their boys, and daughters weepin’ for their brothers, yeah, and brothers lamentin’ their fathers; the heart-wrenchin’ wails of sorrow filled the air for all them who lost their loved ones.
And I’ll tell ya for sure, it was a real sad day; a time for folks to get serious, to do a whole lot of fastin’ and prayin’.
And that’s how we bid farewell to the fifteenth year of them judges bein’ in charge of the Nephites; 
Now, this here is the tale of Ammon and his bros, their travels through Nephi, all their sufferin’, heartaches, and then the joy that’s hard to understand, and how they welcomed and kept their kin safe in Jershon. And we all hope the Lord, that good ol’ Redeemer, blesses their souls forever.
This here’s also the story of the fights and bickerin’ among the Nephites, and the scuffles between ‘em and the Lamanites; and that fifteenth year of the judges has come to a close.
From year one to year fifteen, we’ve seen a whole heap of folks meet their end; it’s been a downright bloody mess.
So many bodies layin’ in the ground, and just as many rottin’ away in heaps on top of the earth; meanwhile, a lotta others are mournin’ like crazy for their kin ‘cause they reckon, based on what the Lord promised, that them folks are stuck in a never-ending state of sorrow.
But there’s also thousands who’re truly grievin’ for their loved ones, and yet they’re a-hollerin’ with joyknowin’, ‘cause of the Lord’s promises, that their kin are sittin’ up there with God, enjoyin’ a happiness that don’t ever run out.
And that shows us just how unfair life can be ’cause of sin and all that mess, plus the devil’s trickery with plans cooked up to trap the hearts of folks.
So we see the mighty call for folks to get to work in the Lord's fields; and we also see plenty of reasons for both sorrow and joy—sorrow due to death and destruction, but joy from the light of Christ bringin’ life.
