Well, if I could just sprout some wings like an angel, I'd love to go out yellin’ God's words, makin’ the very ground shake, shoutin’ for folks to turn their lives ‘round!
Sure enough, I’d holler at every single soul, like thunder rollin’ across the sky, urging folks to repent and find their way back to the good Lord, so we ain't got more heartache hangin’ over this ol’ world.
But shoot, I’m just a man, and I ain’t no better than my desires; I reckon I oughta be happy with what the Good Lord’s given me.
I ain't lookin’ to stir up nothin’ against what God’s got planned, 'cause I know He gives to folks what they truly want, whether that leads ‘em to live or to kick the bucket; yeah, He makes up His mind and that don’t change based on what folks wish for, be it salvation or just plain ol’ chaos.
Yep, I know good and evil's laid out for all us folks; if ya don’t know right from wrong, you ain't in trouble; but if you do know the score, then you get what you ask for, whether it’s good, bad, or somethin’ in between.
So, knowin’ all that, why should I want more than to just do the work I been called to do?
Why should I even think ‘bout bein’ an angel, spreadin’ the word to every corner of the earth?
‘Cause look here, the Lord blesses all kinds of folks, from all walks of life, to share His word in ways that make sense for them; He’s full of wisdom, handin’ out what folks need, and it’s all real just and true.
I reckon I know what the Lord’s asked me to do, and I’m proud of it. Ain’t about me, no sir, it’s all ‘bout what God commands; my pride’s in bein’ a tool in His toolbox, tryin’ to help bring folks back to Him, and that fills my heart with joy.
And when I see my brothers truly turnin’ their lives around, coming back to the Lord, oh man, that fills me right up with happiness; I can’t help but think ‘bout all the good stuff the Lord's done for me, even hearin’ my prayers, and I remember how kind He was to reach out to me.
Yeah, I remember my folks bein’ all tied up in captivity; I know for a fact the Lord got ‘em outta that mess and set up His church; the Lord God’s been there for ‘em, the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, and He brought ‘em through.
I ain't ever forgot how my ancestors were freed; the same God who rescued ‘em from the Egyptians is the same one who pulled ‘em from their troubles.
And that same God went ahead and set up His church with ‘em; and guess what? That same God’s called me to share the word with this here crowd, and I’m havin’ a heap of success that just fills my heart to the brim.
But it ain’t just my own success that makes me happy, no way; my joy grows even more ‘cause of my brothers who ventured over to the land of Nephi.
Look, they’ve worked their tails off and have done so much good; just think of how big their reward’s gonna be!
When I ponder on what they’ve achieve, it literally lifts my soul right up, like it’s floatin’ outta my body, it’s that strong of joy.
And I pray God lets these brothers of mine take their seats in His heavenly kingdom; and all those who’ve benefited from their hard work, I hope they don’t ever leave but get to sing His praises forever. And I pray that it all goes down just like I’ve said, amen.
