Well, lemme tell ya, it all started when them folks from Ammon got settled in Jershon, and also after them Lamanites were kicked outta the land, and their dead were buried right there by the good folks who lived there—
Their dead didn't even get counted 'cause there was just too darn many; neither did the Nephites’ dead get counted—but once they buried their dead, and after all the fasting, mournin’, and prayin’, (and it was 'round the sixteenth year of the judges over Nephi’s folks) things started to calm down real good-like all over the land.
Yup, and the folks kept on following the Lord's commandments; and they was mighty strict ‘bout doin’ God’s stuff, according to Moses’ law; ‘cause they were taught to stick to Moses’ law till it got fulfilled.
So, ‘round the sixteenth year of them judges’ reign, ain't nobody stirred up no trouble.
Then, come the start of the seventeenth year of them judges, peace just kept on rollin’.
But then, as the seventeenth year wore on, a fella showed up in Zarahemla, and he was an Anti-Christ, startin' to preach against all them prophecies 'bout Christ coming.
Now there ain't no law that says folks can’t believe what they want; seein' as it’s against God's commands to make a law that'd put folks on unequal ground.
The Good Book says it plain as day: Pick this day who ya gonna serve.
If a fella wants to serve God, that's his right; or if he just believes in God, he can serve Him too; but if he don’t believe, well, there ain't no law to make him pay for it.
But if he goes 'round killin', he sure's gonna face the death penalty; and if he’s robbin’, he’s gonna get punished too; got caught stealin’, same deal, and if he’s cheatin’ on his wife, he’s gonna pay for that too; yessir, they got punished for all that bad stuff.
'Cause there's laws sayin’ folks should be judged for their wrongdoings. But there sure ain't no law against a man's own beliefs; so folks only get punished for their actual wrongs, and everyone ends up on equal footing.
Now this Anti-Christ fella, Korihor was his name, (and law ain't got no grip on him) started preachin’ to the folks that there ain't gonna be no Christ. And here’s what he had to say:
Hey y’all bound to this silly hope, why y’all hitchin’ yerself to such foolish stuff? Why you lookin’ for a Christ? Ain't no one can know what's gonna happen next.
Look at them prophecies you call holy, handed down by them prophets—they're just foolish traditions from your folks.
How you know for sure they’re right? I tell ya, you can't know what's comin’ if ya can't see it; so you can't claim there'll be a Christ.
You lookin’ forward, claimin’ you see your sins bein’ wiped away. But shoot, that’s just the ramblin’s of a messed-up mind; all that craziness come from your granddaddy's traditions, leadin’ ya to believe in things that ain't real.
And he kept goin’ on like that, tellin’ folks there ain't no way for anyone to atone for their sins, sayin’ every man just gets by in this life dependin’ on how he handles his business; so every man does well ‘cause of his smarts, and every man gets by ‘cause of his strength; and whatever a fella does ain't no crime.
That’s how he preached it, leadin’ many astray, liftin’ ‘em up in their sin, yeah, leadin’ both men and women to all kinds of debauchery—tellin' ‘em when a guy dies, that’s just the end of the road.
This fella even took it over to Jershon, preachin’ to them Ammonites, who used to be them Lamanites.
But they was smarter than a lot of the Nephites; they caught him, tied him up, and dragged him over to Ammon, who was a high priest of their people.
And it went down that he got booted outta the land. He scooted over into Gideon, startin’ to preach to them too; but shoot, he didn’t have much luck, ‘cause they caught him too and took him before the high priest, and the chief judge of the land.
Then the high priest says to him: Why you shakin’ up the Lord’s ways? Why you teachin’ these folks there ain’t gonna be no Christ, messin’ with their good times? Why you talkin’ smack against all them prophecies from the holy prophets?
Now, that high priest, his name was Giddonah. And Korihor says back to him: 'Cause I ain’t preachin’ your folks’ silly traditions, and I ain’t teachin’ this crowd to tie themselves up with them foolish rules laid down by old priests who’re just tryin’ to keep power and keep y’all in the dark, so you can’t lift your heads and have a thought of your own, just like you said.
You say this crowd is free. Well, I say, they’s in chains. You go on sayin’ them ancient prophecies are true. But I say you don’t know jack about that.
You claim this crowd is guilty and fallen ‘cause of their folks. But I say a kid ain’t guilty ‘cause of its mama or daddy.
And you say Christ is gonna come. But I say you don’t know nuttin’ about that. And you also yammer on about him bein’ slain for everybody's sins—
And so you lead this crowd after the foolish paths of your ancestors and your own wants; keepin’ ‘em tied down like it’s bondage, so y’all can take advantage of their labor, so they don’t have the guts to lift their eyes up and enjoy their rights and freedoms.
Yeah, they don’t even dare to use what’s theirs ‘cause they’re scared of offendin’ their priests, who just keep pullin’ ‘em under with their whims, makin’ ’em believe through their dreams, visions, and all that mystery garbage, that if they don’t do what you say, they’ll offend some unknown being, callin’ it God—some being nobody ever seen or known, who ain’t never existed and won’t ever exist.
So when the high priest and chief judge caught wind of his hard-heartedness, yeah, when they saw how he'd even talk trash against God, they didn’t give him no answer; they just had him tied up and sent to the officers, to get him to Zarahemla, so he could be brought before Alma and the chief judge who’s over all the land.
And when they brought him in front of Alma and the chief judge, he went on just like he did in Gideon; yep, he started blaspheming.
He stood up tall, all puffed up, talkin’ big ‘fore Alma, revilin’ the priests and teachers, accusin’ ‘em of leadin’ folks astray for the sake of gettin’ rich off the labor of the people.
Now Alma says to him: You know we ain’t leechin’ off this crowd’s hard work; ‘cause I’ve been workin’ since day one of the judges’ reign, with my own hands to keep eatin’, ‘specially after all my travels to spread God’s word to my people.
And even after all the stuff I’ve done in church, I ain't never seen a single coin for my work; neither has any of my buddies, outside of the judgment-seat; and even then, we only got paid right for our time.
Now tell me, if we ain’t makin’ a dime for the work we do at church, what’s it worth to labor there, 'cept to share the truth, so we can get happy for our fellow folks?
Then why in the world would you say we preachin’ for money, when you know good and well we ain't gainin' a thing? And now, you really think we’re foolin’ these people who find such joy in their hearts?
Korihor answered him, Yup.
Then Alma asked him: You really think there’s a God?
And Korihor said, Nope.
Now Alma said: You gonna deny again there’s a God, and also deny Christ? ‘Cause I’m tellin’ ya, I know there’s a God, and that Christ is gonna come.
So, what proof you got there ain't no God, or that Christ ain't comin’? I’m tellin’ ya, you ain't got none, ‘cept your own word.
But listen here, I got everythin' to prove that these things is true; and you got all the evidence to prove they's true too; you gonna deny that? Do you believe these things are true?
I know you do believe, but you got a lying spirit in ya, and you’ve pushed away the Spirit of God, makin’ it have no spot in ya; and now the devil's got power over ya, leadin’ ya ‘round, tryin’ to mess up the children of God.
Then Korihor told Alma: If you can show me a sign, so I can be sure there’s a God, just show me that He’s got power, and then I’ll believe your words.
But Alma shot back: You’ve seen enough signs already; why you want to tempt God? You gonna say, Show me a sign when you got the word of all your brethren, and all the holy prophets? The scriptures is laid out for ya, and all things shout there’s a God; yep, even this Earth and everything on it, and its movements, and all the planets movin’ in their way are proof there’s a Supreme Creator. 
And yet you go around, leadin’ these folks astray, tellin’ ‘em there’s no God? And you still deny all this proof? And he said: Yup, I’ll deny, unless you show me a sign.
Then Alma said to him: I’m bothered by the hardness of your heart, that you just keep pushin' against the spirit of truth, tryin’ to throw your soul away.
But lemme tell ya, it's better that your soul be lost than you drag a whole bunch of souls down with you, with your lies and flattery; so, if you deny one more time, God’s gonna smack you down so you can’t ever talk again and ain’t foolin’ anybody no more.
Now Korihor said to him: I ain’t denying that there’s a God, but I don’t believe that there’s a God; and I’m sayin’, you don’t know there’s a God; and unless you show me a sign, I ain’t gonna believe.
Alma told him: Here’s what I’ll give you for a sign, you’re gonna be struck dumb, just like I said; and I say, in God’s name, you shall be dumb, and won’t have nothin’ to say no more.
And once Alma said that, Korihor was struck dumb, couldn’t say a word, just like Alma said.
And when the chief judge saw what happened, he reached out and wrote to Korihor, sayin’: You see now the power of God? Who did you think Alma was supposed to show his sign to? You think he should hurt others just to prove it? Look, he showed you a sign; ya gonna keep on disputin’?
So Korihor wrote back, sayin’: I know I’m dumb, can't make a sound; and I know it’s only the power of God could do this to me; yeah, I always knew there was a God.
But I gotta admit, the devil tricked me; he showed up like an angel, told me: Go get this crowd, ‘cause they’s all lost followin’ some unknown God. He said there ain't no God; and taught me what to say. I taught his words ‘cause they sounded good to my flesh, and I taught 'em till I got on a roll, thinkin’ they was true; and for that reason, I fought against the truth, till I ended up with this big ol’ curse on me.
Once he finished sayin’ that, he begged Alma to pray to God, hopin’ the curse might get lifted.
But Alma said to him: If this curse gets taken off ya, you’d just go back to leadin’ these folks astray; so, whatever happens is up to the Lord.
And it went down that the curse didn’t get lifted from Korihor; he was kicked out, wanderin’ ‘round from house to house just beggin’ for food.
Now word got around quick about what happened to Korihor; yep, the chief judge sent out a proclamation to everybody in the land, lettin' those who believed Korihor’s words know they oughta repent pronto, or they might face the same fate.
It went down that everybody got convinced of Korihor’s wickedness; so they all came back to the Lord, and that put an end to the mess that was Korihor. And Korihor went ‘round from house to house, beggin’ for food to stay alive.
And as he was wanderin’ among the people, yeah, around a crowd that split from the Nephites and called themselves Zoramites, led by a fella named Zoram—and as he was out among ‘em, wouldn’t ya know, he got run over and trampled, right up until he was dead.
And that’s how we see the end of that fella who twisted up the Lord’s ways; and that’s how we see that the devil ain't gonna back his kids when it's all said and done, but instead drags ‘em straight down to hell.
