Well, it happened that they decided to get out there and start preachin' the good Lord's word to folks, hittin' up the synagogues, homes, y’know, even preachin’ out in the streets.
Then after puttin’ in a whole lotta hard work, they started seein' some luck with the folks who didn’t have much; seein' as how they’d been thrown outta the synagogues 'cause their clothes weren't exactly fancy—
So they couldn't go into them synagogues to worship God, folks thought they were dirty; that’s why they were poor; heck, their own people saw 'em as worthless; so yeah, they were poor in the ways of the world, and their hearts felt the weight of that, too.
Now, whilst Alma was up on that hill called Onidah talkin' to the people, a big ol’ crowd showed up, and it was the ones we been chattin' about, the ones whose hearts were feelin’ low 'cause they didn't have much in this world.
They approached Alma, and the biggest fella among ‘em said: Listen here, what in the tarnation should we do, 'cause folks look down on us 'cause we ain’t got a dime to our name, especially them priests; they kicked us outta the synagogues we worked our tails off to build; they threw us out 'cause we're so dang poor; we ain't got nowhere to worship our God; so what're we supposed to do now?
And when Alma heard all this, he turned right around, his face shinin' with joy; he saw that them folks had really been humbled by their struggles, and they were ready to soak in the good word.
So he didn't say a whole lot to the other crowd; he just reached out his hand and called out to those who truly repented, sayin’:
I see y’all got humble hearts; and that's a blessin', let me tell ya.
Now your brother over there is wonderin’, what we gonna do?—‘cause we’ve been kicked outta our synagogues, and we can't worship our God anywhere.
Now let me ask ya, do ya really think you can only worship God in your synagogues?
And also, do y’all reckon you gotta worship God just once a week?
Listen here, being tossed outta your synagogues is a good thing, keeps you humble, and helps you learn some wisdom; 'cause you gotta learn that wisdom, bein’ booted out, folks look down on ya 'cause you're broke, it’s what brings you low in your heart; you gotta be humble like that.
And now, since you ain't got no choice but to be humble, that’s a blessin’! 'Cause sometimes a man who’s made to be humble will seek repentance; and I guarantee ya, whosoever repents is gonna find mercy; and whoever finds mercy and hangs in there till the end, they’re the ones who’ll be saved.
And just like I told you, since bein' humbled is a blessin’, don’t ya think them who truly humble themselves 'cause of the word are even more blessed?
Yep, the one who humbles himself for real, repents, and holds on to the faith till the end, he’s gonna be blessed—heck, way more blessed than them folks who just get made humble ‘cause they’re flat broke.
So, blessed are those who humble themselves without bein' forced to; or in other words, blessed is the one who believes in God's word, and gets baptized without bein’ stubborn, yeah, without needin’ to be pushed to know the word before they’ll believe.
Now, you got a bunch who say: If you show us a sign from heaven, then we’ll know for sure; then we’ll believe.
Now let me ask ya, is that really faith? I’m tellin’ you, no way; 'cause if a man knows something, there ain't no reason to believe, he already knows it.
And how much more twisted is the one who knows what God wants him to do and doesn’t do it, than the one who just believes or thinks he’s got a reason to believe but falls into sin?
Now you gotta judge this for yourselves. It’s just like this, one way’s the same as the other; and it's gonna be for every man based on what he does.
And just like I told ya about faith—faith ain’t about havin' perfect knowledge; so if ya got faith, you’re hopin’ for things ya can’t see, but they’re real.
And listen up, God is merciful to all who believe in His name; so first and foremost, He wants you to believe, yeah, even in His word.
Now, He’s passin’ that word along by angels to folks, not just men, but women too. And don’t forget, little kids also get words given to 'em that confuse the wise and learned folks.
And now, my dear brothers, since y’all wanna know what to do ‘cause you're feelin’ down and cast out—just know I ain't judge you solely based on what's true—
'Cause I don't mean to say that all y’all have been forced to humble yourselves; I truly believe there's some of ya who would do it no matter what your circumstances are.
Now, when I talked about faith—not bein' perfect knowledge—it’s the same way with these words I’m speakin'. You can't know for sure right off the bat any more than faith is perfect knowledge.
But look, if you wake up and get your mind workin’ to experiment with my words, even if it’s just a tiny bit of faith, even if you can only wish to believe, let that desire grow in ya until you’re really believe in a way you can accept a piece of my words.
Now, we’re gonna compare the word to a seed. Now, if you give it a chance to be planted in your heart, if it’s a true seed, and you don’t throw it out with your disbelief, it’ll start to swell up inside ya; and when you feel that swellin’, you’ll think to yourself—This here’s gotta be a good seed, or the word must be good, ‘cause it's makin' my soul feel big; it’s lightin’ up my understanding, and it’s even startin’ to taste real good.
Now tell me, wouldn’t that boost your faith? I’m tellin’ ya, yeah; but it ain’t grown into perfect knowledge yet.
But look here, as that seed swells and sprouts and starts growin', you’ll be sayin’ for sure that the seed’s good; 'cause, see, it swells, sprouts, and really starts growin’. And now, you think that won’t boost your faith? Yeah, it’s gonna firm up your faith: you’ll say I know this here’s a good seed; ‘cause look, it’s sproutin’ up and takin' off.
And now, let me ask ya, are you sure this is a good seed? I’m tellin’ ya, yeah; ‘cause every seed brings forth what it’s meant to be.
So, if a seed’s growin’, it’s good, but if it ain’t growin’, well, it ain’t good, so toss it aside.
And now, since you’ve tried this experiment, planted the seed, and it’s swellin’ and sproutin’ and startin’ to grow, you gotta know that seed’s a good one.
And now, is your knowledge perfect? Yeah, your knowledge is perfect in that thing, and your faith is sittin’ there kinda dormant; and that’s 'cause you know, ‘cause ya know that the word’s made your souls swell, and it’s sprouted up, and your understanding is startin’ to brighten, makin’ your mind stretch out.
So tell me, ain't this real? I’m sayin’ yeah, ‘cause it’s light; and anything that’s light is good, ‘cause it's somethin’ you can see, so ya gotta know it’s good; now after you've tasted this light, is your knowledge perfect?
Well, I say to ya, no; and you can't just put your faith aside, 'cause you’ve only used your faith to plant that seed, tryin' to see if that seed's good.
And look, as that tree starts growin', you’ll say: Let’s take good care of it, make sure it gets roots, so it can grow tall and bear fruit for us. And now, looky here, if you nourish it with care, it’ll root down, grow tall, and bear fruit.
But if you just ignore that tree and don’t think about what it needs, it ain’t gonna take root; when that hot sun comes beatin’ down on it, with no roots, it’ll wither up, and you’ll pull it out and throw it away.
Now, this ain't ‘cause the seed's no good, or that fruit wouldn’t be tasty; it’s just ‘cause your ground’s barren, and you wouldn’t tend to the tree, so you can’t have that fruit.
And that’s how it is, if you won’t care for the word, lookin' ahead with faith for its fruit, you ain’t ever gonna get a taste from the tree of life.
But if y’all will take care of that word, yeah, nourish that tree while it's growin’, with your faith and a heap of patience, lookin’ forward to the fruit it’ll bring, it’ll take root; and behold, it’ll be a tree shootin' up to everlasting life.
And because you’re bein’ diligent with your faith and patience in nourishin’ that word so it can take root in you, before you know it you’ll be pickin’ that fruit, which is the most precious, sweeter than sweet, whiter than white, purer than pure; and you’ll feast on that fruit ‘til you’re full, never hungering or thirstin' again.
Then, my brothers, you'll reap the rewards of your faith, diligence, patience, and all that long-sufferin’ while waitin’ for the tree to bear its fruit for ya.
