Well now, Zenos was sayin’ that folks oughta pray and worship all over the place, and judgments get switched up ‘cause of the Son—Zenock was claimin’ that mercy comes ‘round ‘cause of the Son—Moses lifted up some kind of sign in the desert pointin’ to the Son of God. ‘Bout 74 B.C.
So after Alma finished yappin’, they sent word back to him, wantin’ to know if they oughta believe in just one God to get that good stuff he was talkin’ about, or how in the heck they were supposed to plant that seed, or that word he mentioned, which he said needed to be put in their hearts; or how they should start workin’ on their faith.
Alma told ‘em: Now listen here, y’all said you couldn’t worship your God ‘cause you got kicked outta your synagogues. But lemme tell ya, if you think you can’t worship God, you’re mighty wrong, and you oughta go lookin’ in them scriptures; if you reckon they taught you that, well, you just don’t get it.
Y’all remember readin’ what that old prophet Zenos had to say ‘bout prayer or worship?
He said: You sure are merciful, O God, ‘cause you heard my prayer even when I was out in the wilderness; yeah, you was merciful when I prayed for them folks who were my enemies, and you turned ‘em 'round for me.
Yeah, O God, you were merciful to me when I cried out to you in my field; when I hollered to you in my prayer, you heard me.
And again, O God, when I went back to my house, you heard me in my prayer.
And when I turned to my little room, O Lord, and prayed to you, you listened to me.
Yep, you’re merciful to your young’uns when they cry out to you, wantin’ to be heard by you and not folks, and you are gonna hear ‘em.
O God, you’ve been merciful to me, and you heard my cries in the middle of your crowd.
And you also heard me when folks kicked me out and looked down on me; yeah, you heard my cries, got real mad at my enemies, and you showed up on ‘em in a hurry with some serious trouble.
You listened to me ‘cause of my sufferin’ and my honest heart; and it’s ‘cause of your Son that you’ve been so good to me, so I’ll keep cryin’ out to you in all my troubles, for my joy’s in you; for you’ve turned away your judgments from me, ‘cause of your Son.
Now Alma asked ‘em: Do y’all believe them scriptures that folks wrote long ago?
Well now, if you do, you gotta believe what Zenos said; for he said: You turned away your judgments because of your Son.
Now listen here, my brothers, I wanna know if you’ve read them scriptures? If you have, how in tarnation can you doubt the Son of God?
‘Cause it ain’t just Zenos who spoke of this stuff, but Zenock had some words ‘bout it too—
For he said: You’re real mad, O Lord, with these folks ‘cause they don’t get the mercies you’ve shown ‘em ‘cause of your Son.
And now, my brothers, you see another prophet from way back testified ‘bout the Son of God, and ‘cause the people wouldn’t listen, they ended up stonin’ him to death.
But this ain’t all; there’s plenty more who’ve talked ‘bout the Son of God.
He was even mentioned by Moses; yep, and out in the wilderness, a sign was raised up, that whoever looked at it would live. And many did look and lived.
But few really understood what that meant, and that was ‘cause their hearts were hard as a rock. But there were some who were so tough they wouldn’t look, so they perished. The reason they wouldn’t look is ‘cause they didn’t believe it’d heal ‘em.
Oh my brothers, if y’all could be healed just by lookin’ ‘round, would you not look quick like, or would you rather harden your hearts in doubt, bein’ lazy, and not even glance around, that you might perish?
If that’s the case, woeful times are comin’ for you; but if you don’t, then look around and start believin’ in the Son of God, that he’s gonna come save his folks, and that he’ll suffer and die to take care of their sins; and that he’ll rise up from the dead, and that’s gonna lead to the resurrection, that all folks will stand before him, to be judged on that last day, according to their works.
And now, my brothers, I wanna see y’all plant this word in your hearts, and as it starts to grow, you better feed it with your faith. And believe me, it’ll turn into a tree, shootin’ up in you to everlasting life. And may God help lighten your load, through the joy of his Son. And you can do all this if you really want to. Amen.
