Well now, it just so happened that after Alma finished sayin’ all that, he plopped down on the ground, and Amulek stood up and started teachin’ ‘em, sayin’:
Listen up, y’all, I reckon it’s downright impossible for y’all not to know about all that talk about the comin’ of Christ, who we been sayin' is the Son of God; yep, I know folks been preachin’ this to y’all nice and clear before y’all split from us.
Now, I hear ya asked my good buddy to clue you in on what to do ‘cause you’ve been havin’ a tough time; and he’s already said a few things to get ya thinkin’; yep, and he’s been pushin’ ya toward faith and hangin’ in there—
Y’all gotta have enough faith to just plant that word right in your hearts, and then you can see what good it’ll do ya.
And we can see that what’s really got ya wonderin’ is whether the word’s in the Son of God or if there ain’t gonna be no Christ at all.
And y’all also noticed my brother done showed y’all plenty of times that the word is right there in Christ for salvation.
My brother’s called on the wise words of Zenos, that redemption comes through the Son of God, and he’s called on Zenock too; and he’s even brought Moses into the mix to back up what we’re sayin'.
Now, let me just tell you, I’m givin' you my own testimony that all this here is true. I know that Christ is gonna come to the folks down here, takin’ on the sins of the people, and He’s gonna make things right for the world; that’s what the Lord God said.
It’s just plain necessary for an atonement to happen; you see, according to the big plan laid out by the Eternal God, there sure as shootin' has to be an atonement made, or else the whole human race is gonna be in a heap of trouble; yep, everyone’s hard-headed, and we’re all fallen and lost, and we’re gonna perish unless it’s through that atonement which needs to happen.
So it's crucial there’s one big ol’ sacrifice, not one from a mere man or an animal, or anything like that; no sir, it needs to be an infinite and eternal sacrifice.
There ain’t a single fella out there who can shed his own blood that’ll cover someone else’s sins. Now, if a fella goes and murders someone, is our fair law gonna take the life of the one who got killed? I’ll tell ya, no way.
But the law says that the life of the murderer must go; so nothin’ short of a big ol’ infinite atonement is gonna cut it for the sins of this world.
So, like I said, it’s essential for there to be a grand sacrifice, and it’s gonna be time to stop all this bloodshed; that’s when the law of Moses will be completed; everything’s gonna get fulfilled, no little detail left out, and nothin’ will slip by.
And here’s the whole gist of the law, every bit of it pointin' to that great final sacrifice; and that big ol’ sacrifice is gonna be the Son of God, eternally infinite.
And He’s gonna bring salvation to everyone who believes in His name; that’s the purpose of this last sacrifice—to bring the mercy that overcomes justice, makin’ a way for folks to have faith that leads to repentance.
So mercy can meet justice right where it needs to, holdin’ folks in safety, while those who ain’t got faith for repentance are out there just exposed to justice’s full wrath; only those with faith for repentance can grab hold of that great and eternal plan of redemption.
So I pray the good Lord helps ya, my brothers, to start usin’ your faith for some repentance, and callin’ on His holy name, hopin’ for His mercy on y’all;
Yeah, shout out to Him for some mercy; ‘cause He’s mighty to save.
Y’all humble yourselves, and keep prayin’ to Him.
Call out to Him when you’re out in your fields, over all your flocks.
Call out to Him in your homes, over all your household mornin’, noon, and night.
Yeah, call out to Him ‘gainst your enemies.
Sure, call out to Him against the devil, who’s up to no good for all that’s righteous.
Cry out to Him ‘bout the crops in your fields, so you can prosper.
Wail over the flocks of your fields so they can grow.
But hold on, that ain’t all; you gotta let your souls pour out in your closets, and your secret spots, and in the great outdoors.
And when you ain't cryin' out to the Lord, keep your hearts full, always liftin’ up prayers for your well-being, and for those all ‘round you.
And now listen up, my dear brothers, don’t go thinkin’ this is all there is; ‘cause after you’ve done all this, if ya turn away from the needy, and the naked, and don’t check on the sick and troubled, and don’t share from what ya got with those in need—if you don’t do any of that, well, I’ll tell ya, your prayers won’t amount to a hill of beans, and you’re just bein' hypocrites denying the faith.
So if you forget to be generous, you’re just like scrap metal, which the refiners toss aside (ain’t worth nothin’) and gets stomped on by folks.
And now, my brothers, I hope after seein’ all these witnesses, what with the holy scriptures testifyin’ ‘bout these truths, you come forward and bring forth some fruit that shows repentance.
Yeah, I wish you’d step up and stop hardenin’ your hearts any longer; ‘cause now’s the time, the day for your salvation; and so, if you’ll repent and not harden your hearts, right away the great plan of redemption will come to you.
‘Cause this here life is the time for folks to get ready to meet God; sure enough, this day here is for folks to do their work.
And as I mentioned before, now that you’ve had so many witnesses, I’m beggin’ ya to not put off the day of your repentance until the very end; ‘cause after this life we’ve been given to prepare for eternity, if we don’t make the most of our time while we’re livin’, then comes the darkness where there won’t be any workin’ done.
You can’t say, when you get to that awful moment, that you’ll repent, that you’ll head back to your God. No sir, you can’t say that; ‘cause the same spirit that’s holdin’ onto ya when you leave this life, that same spirit will have the power to hold onto you in that eternal existence.
‘Cause if you’ve put off your repentance even ‘til your death, you’ve given over to the spirit of the devil, and he’s sealed you as his; that's why the Spirit of the Lord’s pulled away from you, and don’t have a place in you, and the devil’s got all the power over ya; and that’s where the wicked end up.
And I know this, ‘cause the Lord done said He don’t hang around in unholy places, but He lives in the hearts of those who are righteous; yep, and He also said that the righteous will rest in His kingdom, never goin’ out again; but their clothes will be made white through the blood of the Lamb.
And now, my beloved brothers, I pray y’all remember these truths, and that you work out your salvation with a healthy dose of fear before God, and that you quit denyin’ Christ’s return;
That you quit fightin’ against the Holy Ghost, and that you receive it, takin’ on the name of Christ; that y’all humble yourselves down to the ground, and worship God wherever you find yourselves, in spirit and in truth; and that you keep bein’ thankful every day for all the mercies and blessings He gives you.
And right on, I also urge you, my brothers, to stay alert with your prayers all the time, so you don’t get pulled away by the devil’s temptations, that he ain’t able to take hold of ya, that you ain’t gonna end up his subjects in the last day; ‘cause mark my words, he don’t give you nothin’ good.
And now my dear brothers, I’m pushin’ you to have some patience, and that you bear up under all kinds of troubles; don’t go revilin’ against those who throw you out ‘cause you’re down on your luck, ‘less you turn into sinners just like them;
But keep bein' patient and bearin’ with those hard times, holdin’ onto the hope that one day you’ll get to rest from all your troubles.
