Well, it all got started when Amulek wrapped up his talk, and them fellas kinda drifted off from the crowd and made their way over to the land of Jershon.
Yup, and the rest of the crew, after spreadin' the good word to them Zoramites, they too hightailed it over to Jershon.
So it happened that after the more popular Zoramites got together for a little chit-chat about what had been said, they got all mad-like 'cause the word was messin' with their little scheme; so they just ignored what was preached.
Then they went and rounded up folks all over the land, consultin' 'em 'bout them words that was spoken.
But now, their big shots and spin doctors didn’t let the people in on their secret plans; they just snooped around to figure out what everybody was thinkin’.
Then lo and behold, after they figured out what folks thought, them who sided with Alma and his buddies got kicked out from the land; and there were a whole heap of ‘em; they scooted on over to Jershon too.
And then, Alma and his pals went ahead and took care of them.
Now the Zoramites were plum furious with the Ammon folks livin’ in Jershon, and their top dog, bein’ a real nasty piece of work, hollered over at the Ammonites, tellin' ‘em to kick all them strays from their land.
And he let out all sorts of threats against ‘em. But the good folks of Ammon didn’t bat an eye at his words; they stayed put and welcomed all the down-and-out Zoramites who came knockin' on their door; they fed ‘em, clothed ‘em, and gave ‘em land to call their own; they made sure to help ‘em with whatever they needed.
This here got the Zoramites all riled up against the Ammonites, and they started buddying up with the Lamanites and stirring ‘em up, too.
So the Zoramites and Lamanites started gettin’ all geared up for a showdown against the Ammonites and the Nephites.
And that’s how the seventeenth year of them judges over the Nephites wrapped up.
Then the Ammonites packed up and left Jershon, settlin’ over in the land of Melek, makin' room in Jershon for the Nephite armies to go head-to-head with the Lamanites and the Zoramites; hence, a war kicked off between the Lamanites and Nephites in the eighteenth year of them judges; and we’ll get to the stories of their battles later.
Alma, Ammon, and their crew, along with Alma's two sons, returned to Zarahemla after doin' God’s work and helpin’ a whole bunch of Zoramites find their way back; the ones who repented got booted outta their land, but they scored some land in Jershon, and they grabbed their weapons to protect themselves, their families, and their land.
Now Alma, feelin’ all kinds of hurt for the sins of his people, what with the wars, the bloodshed, and all the fuss amongst ‘em; and he had been out there preachin’ to everyone in every town, seein’ how hard-hearted folks were gettin’, and how they were gettin’ all bent outta shape ‘cause of the strict word, his heart was heavy as a rock.
So, he gathered up his boys, wanna make sure each one got his own piece of advice about doin' what’s right. And we got a record of his instructions that he laid down for ‘em.
