Well now, listen up, son, I’m fixin’ to tell ya somethin’ mighty important; I swear, as long as ya keep them commandments from God, you’ll have good fortune in these here parts.
I reckon you oughta remember what happened to our folks back in the day; they were trapped in bondage, and nobody could pull 'em outta there 'cept for the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob; and you betcha, He sure did rescue 'em when times got tough.
Now, Helaman, you’re still a youngin’, and I'm askin’ ya real nice to pay close attention to what I’m sayin’ and to learn from me; ‘cause I swear if folks put their faith in God, they’ll get through their trials and troubles, and they'll be lifted up when all’s said and done.
And don’t go thinkin’ I figured all this out on my own—no sir, it’s not about the here and now, but more about the spiritual side of things, not from a mortal mind but from God above.
Now listen here, if I hadn’t been born of God, I wouldn’t be in the know 'bout all these things; but God, through His holy angel, told me things I didn’t earn or deserve.
I used to run around with them Mosiah boys, tryin’ to put a stop to the church; but hold on, God sent His angel to set us straight along the way.
And let me tell ya, that voice came at us like thunder, and the ground shook right under our feet; we all dropped to the ground, scared outta our wits.
But then the voice told me, “Get up!” And I popped up and saw that angel standin’ there.
He said, “If you’re lookin’ to ruin yourself, then stop messin’ with the church of God.”
I ain't lyin’, I fell right down to the ground; for three days and three nights, my mouth was shut tight, and I couldn’t move a muscle.
That angel had more to say, my brothers heard it, but me? I was too scared when I heard him say, “If you keep tryin’ to destroy the church, you’re gonna be your own worst enemy,” and that fear hit me like a ton of bricks and I passed out cold.
I was tormented like you wouldn’t believe, feelin' all my sins weighin’ down on me real heavy.
Yep, I recalled every single one of my mess-ups, and it felt like my soul was bein’ crushed under the weight of hell’s fires; I realized I was rebelling against my God, and I hadn't been keepin’ His holy commandments worth a lick.
I even thought about how I’d led many of His children to their ruin; my iniquities were so bad that just the idea of standin’ before God made my heart freeze in fear.
Oh, how I wished I could just be gone—both soul and body—so I wouldn’t have to face Him and answer for my deeds.
For three long days and nights, I was tormented like a soul damned to hell.
And in the midst of all that, while I was trapped in memories of my sins, I remembered my daddy told the folks about Jesus Christ, God’s Son, comin’ to make things right for the world.
While my mind was stuck on that thought, I cried out deep inside: “O Jesus, Son of God, have mercy on me, 'cause I'm in a world of hurt and surrounded by chains of death.”
And wouldn’t ya know, as soon as I thought that, my pain just up and vanished; I couldn’t remember my troubles anymore.
Oh, what joy filled my heart, just like a blazing light; my soul felt happier than I ever knew was possible!
I’ll tell ya, kid, there ain't nothin’ so rich and sweet as the joy I found compared to the bitterness of all them pains I had before.
You see, I thought I caught a glimpse, just like our father Lehi did, of God sittin’ on His throne with a whole heap of angels singin’ praises to Him; and boy, did my heart long to be there.
But then, my strength came back, and I stood right up, lettin’ folks know I’d been born of God.
From that moment till now, I been workin’ non-stop tryin’ to help souls repent; I wanna show 'em the joy I tasted, so they too can be born of God and filled with the Holy Ghost.
And now I gotta tell ya, son, the Lord has givin' me so much joy from the fruits of my labors;
‘Cause thanks to the words He shared with me, I’ve seen many folks be born of God and taste the same sweet joy I have, and they know the truth just like I do; what I know comes straight from God.
I’ve been held up through all kinds of trials and troubles; yep, God has saved me time and time again from chains and death; I trust Him, and I know He’ll keep deliverin’ me.
And I’m sure that when the day comes, He’ll raise me up to be with Him in glory; I’ll praise Him forever, for He’s led our folks outta Egypt, and took care of them Egyptians in that Red Sea; He guided ‘em by His power right into the promised land; He’s been rescuin’ ‘em from bondage time and time again.
And let’s not forget, He’s also brought our folks outta Jerusalem; and through His never-endin’ power, He’s freed 'em from captivity, all the way to today; and I always remember their struggles; you should too, just like me, keepin’ their captivity close to your heart.
But son, hold on, that’s not all; you oughta know what I know, that if you keep the commandments of God, you'll do just fine in this land; but if you ignore ‘em, well, you won’t be able to be around Him anymore. That’s just the way it is, according to His word.
