My boy, now listen up to what I gotta say, just like I told Helaman, if y’all keep God’s commandments, you gonna do mighty fine in the land; but if you don’t, well, you might find yourself cut off from His presence.
And now, my boy, I reckon I’ll have a heap of joy in you, 'cause of how steady and faithful you’ve been to God; now that you’ve started lookin’ to the Lord in your youth, I sure hope you keep on keepin’ His commandments; blessed is the one who hangs in there till the end.
I’m tellin’ you, son, I’ve already had a whole lotta joy in ya, 'cause of your faithfulness and hard work, and your patience and long-sufferin' with them Zoramites.
'Cause I know you been in shackles; yeah, and I also know you took some stones for speakin’ the word; and you put up with all that 'cause the Lord was right there with ya; and now you know the Lord done delivered you.
And now, my boy Shiblon, remember this: as much as you trust in God, that’s how much He’ll pull you through your trials, troubles, and sufferin’s, and you gonna be lifted up on that last day.
Now, son, I don’t want you thinkin’ I know all this on my own, 'cause it’s the Spirit of God in me what’s lettin’ me know all these things; if I hadn’t been born of God, I wouldn’t know none of this.
But just look, the Lord, in His great mercy, sent His angel to tell me I had to stop all the destruction amongst His folks; yeah, I saw an angel face to face, and he spoke to me, and His voice was like thunder, shakin’ the whole earth.
Then it happened that I was three days and three nights in the worst kinda pain and heartache; and never, till I cried out to the Lord Jesus Christ for mercy, did I get a break from my sins. But, let me tell ya, I did cry to Him, and I found peace in my soul.
Now, son, I told you this so you can learn some wisdom, and know there ain’t no other way for folks to be saved, 'cept through Christ. Look here, He’s the life and the light of the world. He’s the word of truth and righteousness.
And now that you’ve started teachin’ the word, I want you to keep at it; and be diligent and temperate in everything you do.
Don’t go gettin’ all full of pride now; don’t be boastin’ ‘bout your own smarts or your strength.
Be bold, but don’t go overboard; and make sure you keep all your passions in check, so you can be filled with love; also, don’t be lazy.
Don’t pray like them Zoramites do, 'cause you saw they pray just to be heard by folks and to get praised for bein' wise.
Don’t be sayin’: O God, I thank you we’re better than our brothers; instead, say: O Lord, forgive my unworthiness, and keep my brothers in Your mercy—always acknowledge your faults before God.
And may the Lord bless your soul and welcome you into His kingdom on that last day, so you can sit in peace. Now go on, my boy, and teach this folks the word. Keep your wits about ya. Son, I’ll see ya later.
