Well now, listen here, my boy, I got somethin’ to say to ya that’s a bit more than what I told your brother. Ain't you noticed how steady your brother is? He’s been faithful and works real hard at keepin’ God’s commandments, ain't he? He sure set a good example for ya, that’s a fact.
Now, I reckon you weren’t payin’ as much attention to my words like your brother was, not in front of them Zoramites, no siree. And here’s what’s irkin’ me—y’all got a little too full of yourself, thinkin’ you were mighty clever and strong.
But hold up, son, there’s more to it. You done went and did somethin’ that really upset me; you turned your back on the ministry and traipsed off into that land of Siron chasin' after that harlot Isabel.
Well now, she sure did steal away the hearts of a whole mess of folks, but that ain't no pass for ya, son. You should’ve stuck to the ministry you were given, plain and simple.
Ain’t you aware, my son, that all that mess is downright abominable to the Lord? Yep, it’s about the worst kinda sin, only exception bein’ the spillin’ of innocent blood or flat-out denyin’ the Holy Ghost.
‘Cause lemme tell ya, if you go denyin’ the Holy Ghost after he’s been in ya, and you know it, that there’s a sin that ain't got no forgiveness. And whoever goes and murders in the light of God ain't gonna find it easy to get that forgiveness either; I’m tellin’ ya, son, it’s a tough road to hoe.
Now, I really wish to God you hadn’t been mixed up in such a big ol’ mess. I wouldn’t keep bringin’ it up if it weren’t for your own good.
But ya can’t hide from God, let me tell ya; unless ya repent, them crimes are gonna stand against ya on that last day.
Now, son, I really want you to repent and leave behind those sins, and quit chasin’ after every pretty thing you see; you gotta get right with all that, ‘cause if ya don’t, there ain’t no way you’re gettin’ into the kingdom of God. Oh, remember it, and take it to heart, you gotta make things right.
And I’m tellin’ ya, ya better start talkin’ with your older brothers ‘bout what you’re doin’; you’re still young, and you need their guidance. So listen up to what they say.
Don’t let yourself get swept away by somethin’ silly or foolish; don’t let the devil pull your heart back into those wicked ways. Just look at the trouble you caused for the Zoramites; your actions made ’em doubt my words.
Now, the Spirit of the Lord’s tellin’ me: you gotta instruct your young’uns to do good, else they might lead a whole lotta folks to ruin; so I’m tellin’ you, my boy, fear God and put a stop to your sins.
Turn to the Lord with all your heart, strength, and spirit; don’t lead others astray no more, but go back to ‘em, admit your wrongs and the trouble you stirred up.
Don’t go chasin’ after riches or all them shiny things of this world; ‘cause let’s be honest, you ain’t takin’ any of that with ya.
And now, son, I want to chat a bit ‘bout the comin’ of Christ. I’m here to tell ya that he’s surely gonna come and take away the world’s sins; yep, he’s comin’ to share the good news of salvation with his folks.
Now, listen up, boy, this is the ministry you were called to—gonna spread those good tidings to this here people, to get their minds ready; or really so that salvation can come to ‘em, helpin’ ‘em prepare their kiddos to hear the word when he shows up.
And now I’m gonna ease your mind a bit on this topic. You’re wonderin’ why folks gotta know about all this way ahead of time, right? Well, I’ll tell ya, ain’t every soul just as precious to God now as it’ll be when he shows up?
Ain’t it just as important for this people to know about the redemption plan as it is for their young’uns?
Ain’t it as easy right now for the Lord to send his angel to share these good tidings with us just as it would be for our children after his coming?
