Now it came to pass in the sixth year of the reign of the judges over the people of Nephi, there weren’t no squabbles or wars goin’ on in the land of Zarahemla;
But the folks were sufferin’, shoot, they were downright heartbroken over the loss of their kinfolk, and also their livestock, and their fields of grain that got all trampled and wrecked by those Lamanite rascals.
And their troubles were so profound that every single one had reason to mourn; they figured it was the Big Guy Upstairs, sendin’ down His judgment ‘cause of the bad stuff they been up to; so they woke up to rememberin’ their responsibilities.
And they started gettin’ the church all set up proper-like; shoot, tons of folks got baptized in the waters of Sidon and joined up with the good Lord’s church; yep, they were baptized by Alma, who was the high priest over the people, put there by his daddy Alma’s own hand.
And it came to pass in the seventh year of the judges’ reign, about three thousand five hundred folks got together and joined the church of God and got baptized. And thus the seventh year of the judges' reign wrapped up, and there was peace all around during that time.
And it came to pass in the eighth year of the judges’ reign, that the church folks started gettin’ a bit too proud, what with all their riches, and fancy silks, and that nice linen, plus their big ol’ herds and flocks, gold and silver, and all kinds of shiny things they’d worked hard to get; and in all these things, they got all puffed up with pride, startin’ to flaunt their expensive clothes.
Now this was real tough on Alma, bless his heart, and a whole heap of them folks he had set up as teachers, priests, and elders in the church; many of ‘em were really upset over the wickedness that was startin’ to creep in among their people.
‘Cause they saw with heavy hearts that the church folks were gettin’ all lofty and proud, settin’ their sights on riches and the silly things of the world, gettin’ snooty toward one another, and bein' mean to folks who didn’t believe like they did.
And in this eighth year of the judges’ reign, there began to be some serious squabblin’ among the church folks; yep, there was envy, strife, malice, persecution, and pride, even worse than those who weren’t part of the church of God.
And so wrapped up the eighth year of the judges; the church’s wickedness was a big ol’ hurdle for those who weren’t in the church; and thus the church started fallin’ behind in its progress.
And it came to pass at the start of the ninth year, Alma saw the church’s sins, and he could tell that the church was leadin’ those nonbelievers from one bit of trouble to another, causin’ a whole lot of ruin for the people.
Yep, he saw a real mess among the folks, some of ‘em struttin’ around proud as peacocks, lookin’ down their noses at others, turnin’ their backs on those in need—those who were cold, hungry, thirsty, and sick.
Now this brought a whole lot of tears among the people, while some others were humblin’ themselves, helpin’ those who needed a hand, sharin’ what they had with the poor folks, feedin’ the hungry, and puttin’ up with all sorts of troubles, all for the sake of Christ, who was comin’ ‘round one day, just like the prophets said;
Lookin’ forward to that day, holdin’ onto hope and forgiveness for their sins; feelin' all kinds of joy ‘cause of the resurrection of the dead, thanks to the will and strength of Jesus Christ bustin’ them free from death's grip.
And now it came to pass that Alma, seein’ the troubles of the humble folks followin’ God, and the hard times bein’ thrown at ‘em by the rest of his people, and lookin’ at all the inequality, started feelin’ real down; but bless his heart, the Spirit of the Lord didn’t leave him hangin'.
So he picked out a wise fella from the elders of the church and gave him the go-ahead, just like the people wanted, to take charge and make laws, keepin’ an eye on the wrongdoings of 'em folks.
Now this fella’s name was Nephihah, and he got himself appointed chief judge; he took his seat to judge and keep order among the folks.
Now Alma didn’t hand over the high priest spot to him, but kept that job for himself; he passed the judgment seat to Nephihah.
And he did this so he could get out there with his people, or among the people of Nephi, to preach the good word of God to ‘em, to get ‘em thinkin’ about their duties, and to tear down all that pride, sneakiness, and squabblin’ among his folks, seein’ no way to bring ‘em back ‘cept by givin’ pure testimony against ‘em.
And thus at the start of the ninth year of the judges’ reign over the people of Nephi, Alma handed over the judgment seat to Nephihah and focused on his high priest duties, stickin’ to the word of God, guided by the spirit of prophecy and revelation.
