Well now, let me tell ya, this here life we’re livin’ is just a test to give folks a chance to turn it around and do right by God—’cause that Fall business brought death, both kinda deaths, on all of us folks—Redemption’s all about turnin’ your life around—God Himself pays the price for the world’s mess-ups—Now mercy’s for them who truly wanna change—All them other folks gotta face the music of God’s justice—Mercy comes ‘cause of the Atonement—Only the real sorry ones get saved. ‘Bout 74 B.C.
Now listen here, my boy, I can tell somethin’s weighin’ on your mind, and it ain’t sittin’ well with ya—ya wonderin’ ‘bout God’s justice when it comes to punishing the sinners; ya reckon it’s unfair for a sinner to end up in a heap of trouble.
Now, just hold on a second, my son, I’m gonna lay this out for ya. Ya see, when the Good Lord sent our first parents on outta that Eden garden to work the land they came from—yep, He pulled the man out, put him over yonder on the east side of the garden, guarded by cherubim, and wieldin' a flaming sword twistin' every which way, keepin’ folks from that tree of life—
Now, look here, we see that the man learned all God’s knowledge, knowin’ good from bad; and so he wouldn’t get to grab hold of that tree of life, eat up, and live forever, the Lord put them cherubim and the sword there, keepin’ him from munchin’ on that fruit—
So we can see, there was a time given to folks to turn around, yeah, a testin’ time, a chance to get right with God.
‘Cause look here, if Adam had just reached out and grabbed that tree of life right off the bat, he’d a lived forever, like God said, not that he’d have much room for repentin’; and that would mean God’s word woulda been all for nothin’, messin’ up the whole plan of salvation.
But lo and behold, it was set up for man to take a dirt nap—so when they got cut off from that tree of life, they got cut off from this ole earth too—and man ended up lost forever, sure enough, they fell pretty hard.
Now y’all see, with this here knowledge, our first parents got cut off both in this life and in spirit from the Lord; and that's how they ended up followin’ their own whims.
Now listen, it just didn’t make sense for man to be brought back from this here physical death, ‘cause that’d mess up the whole plan of happiness.
So, since a soul don’t ever really die, and that Fall made all of mankind suffer both spiritually and temporally, bein’ cut off from the Lord’s presence, it made sense that folks oughta be brought back from that spiritual death.
That’s why they turned all carnal and devilish in nature—this here temporary state became a chance for ‘em to get ready; it was a prep time.
And now don’t forget, my son, if it weren’t for that good plan of redemption, (settin’ it aside) right when folks kick the bucket, their souls are in a real pickle, bein’ cut off from the Lord.
And now, there just wasn't a way to bring folks back from this fallen state, which they got themselves into ‘cause they just wouldn’t listen;
So, ‘cordin’ to justice, that plan of redemption couldn’t take shape, only if folks repented in this here testin’ time, yeah, this preparatory state; ‘cause if it weren’t for them conditions, mercy couldn’t kick in without messin’ up justice. Now, justice ain’t gonna be short-changed; if it was, God’d stop being God.
So there ya have it, all mankind’s fallen, and they’re caught in justice’s grip; yeah, God’s justice that sentenced ‘em to be cut off forever from His presence.
Now, that plan of mercy couldn't go through ‘til an atonement was made; so God’s the one who pays for the world’s sins, makin’ way for mercy, fulfillin’ justice so He can be both a fair God and a merciful one.
Now, folks can’t repent unless there’s a punishment tagged along, one that’s as eternal as the soul, sittin’ right up against the plan of happiness, which also lasts as long as the soul does.
Now, how in the world can a man repent without hittin’ that bottom line of doing wrong? How could ya even do wrong if there weren’t no law? How could there even be a law if there wasn’t some kind of punishment?
Now, they surely set up a punishment, and a just law’s been laid down that brings a real painful conscience to folks.
Now, if there wasn’t no law writ down—if a man offed someone, he oughta die—would he even worry about dyin’ if he was fixin’ to kill?
And also, without no laws against sin, folks wouldn’t fret ‘bout doin’ wrong.
And if the law ain’t gonna be there, if folks sinned what could justice or mercy do, ‘cause they wouldn’t have any right to make claims on the sinner?
But there’s a law set in stone, and a punishment quickened up, and repentance in the mix; which mercy’s layin’ claim to; otherwise justice would be claimin’ that sinner and makin’ ‘em pay up, punishin’ ‘em; if it ain’t that way, justice would get all messed up, and God wouldn’t be God no more.
But God ain’t gonna stop bein’ God, and mercy’s lookin’ out for the folks that repent, and mercy comes ‘round ‘cause of that atonement; and that atonement gets them dead folks back up again; and the resurrection of the dead brings folks back into God’s presence; and that’s how they get restored to Him, to be judged by their works, according to law and justice.
‘Cause looky here, justice’s takin’ care of all its claims, and mercy’s layin’ hold of all that’s hers; so only the truly repentant are gonna make it.
What, ya think mercy can just swoop in and steal from justice? I tell ya, nope; not a bit. If that’s the case, God’d just stop bein’ God.
And that’s how God works out His big ol’ eternal plans that were set up way back when the world was just a thought. And that’s how salvation and redemption for folks happens, along with the slipperiness and mess that follows.
So listen here, my son, anyone who wants to come can come on down and dive into those waters of life without a penny to their name; and anyone who don’t want to come ain't gotta— but come the last day, they gonna get back what they put into it.
If they wished to do wrong, and never turned things ‘round in time, reckon evil’s gonna come right back ‘round on ‘em, just like God said.
And now, my son, I hope ya’ll let these thoughts roll off your back and just let your sins remind ya of what’s gotta change, nothin’ heavier than that bringin’ ya down to repentance.
Oh my son, I’m hopin’ you let go of doubtin’ God’s justice now. Don’t you try to make excuses for your sins in any way by denyin' what’s just; but let God’s justice, mercy, and patience have their way in your heart; let it bring you down low in humility.
Now, listen here, my son, you’ve been called by God to share the good word with these folks. So, go on now, spread that truth with sincerity and a clear head, that you might lead folks to turn their hearts around, so this grand plan of mercy can take hold of ‘em. And may God bless you just like I asked Him to, Amen.
