Well, it happened that they stopped and backed off a bit. And Moroni said to Zerahemnah: Now listen here, Zerahemnah, we ain't lookin' to be bloodthirsty folks. You know we're holdin’ all the cards, but we ain't fixin’ to take you out.
Listen here, we didn't come to this fight just to spill your blood for power; we sure don't wanna put nobody under our thumb. But that's exactly why y’all are comin’ at us, ain't it? Y'all are mad at us 'cause of our beliefs.
But you see now that the Good Lord’s on our side; He’s handed ya right over to us. And I want you to get this clear: what’s happenin' here is 'cause of our faith and belief in Christ. You can tell we ain't gonna let this faith of ours go down easy.
Now you see, this right here is the real deal, the true faith in God; you can see that God’ll back us up, keep us safe, and look after us as long as we keep our faith strong; He sure won’t let us be wiped out unless we start messin’ up and turn our backs on what we believe.
And now, Zerahemnah, I’m tellin’ you, in the name of that mighty God who’s given us the strength to take you on, by our faith, by the way we worship, by the church we call our own, and by the love we hold for our families and this land we call home; and by that sacred word of God, which gives us real happiness—
Now listen here, I ain’t done yet; I'm commandin’ you by all them things you hold dear about livin’, to hand over your weapons to us, and we ain’t lookin’ for your blood, we’ll let you live if you just skedaddle and don’t come back lookin' for trouble.
But now, if you don’t do this, well, you’re in our grip, and I’ll tell my boys to come down on you hard, and put a hurtin’ on ya that you won’t come back from; we’ll see who’s really in charge here; we’ll see who’s gonna end up shackled.
And when Zerahemnah heard all this, he stepped up, handed over his sword and his bow to Moroni, and said: Alright, here are our weapons; we’ll give ‘em to ya, but we ain't takin’ no oath 'cause we know we ain't keepin' it, and neither will our kids; so just take our weapons and let us head out into the wild; otherwise, we’re keepin’ our swords, and we'll either die fightin’ or win.
Now listen, we ain't part of your faith; we don’t reckon it was God who put us in your grip; we think it’s your slick ways that’s kept ya safe from our blades. It’s your breastplates and shields that’ve kept ya goin’.
And when Zerahemnah finished up his speech, Moroni handed back the sword and weapons he’d been given, sayin': Alright now, we’re callin' this fight off.
I can’t recall my words, so as sure as the Lord lives, y’all ain't leavin' here unless you swear you won't come at us again with war. Now that you're in our grip, we can spill your blood, or you can agree to what I’m settin’ forth.
And after Moroni said this, Zerahemnah kept hold of his sword, madder than a hornet, and rushed to kill Moroni; but just as he swung that sword, one of Moroni’s lads knocked it right outta his hands, broke it at the hilt, and also got Zerahemnah, takin’ off his scalp, which tumbled to the ground. And Zerahemnah hightailed it back to his men.
Now, that soldier who got Zerahemnah’s scalp, he picked it up by the hair and put it on the tip of his sword, and stretched that sword out toward 'em, yellin’ loud:
Just like this here scalp’s dropped on the ground, which belongs to your chief, so y’all gonna go down too, unless you hand over your weapons and skedaddle with a promise of peace.
Now, a whole bunch of folks, when they heard this and saw that scalp on the sword, got scared stiff; and many stepped up, dropped their weapons at Moroni’s feet, and agreed to a peace deal. And all who made the deal were allowed to leave for the wild.
But Zerahemnah was fit to be tied, gettin’ all riled up, and he got the rest of his crew fired up to fight harder against the Nephites.
Moroni was mad too, seein’ how stubborn the Lamanites were; so he told his folks to go after 'em and take 'em out. And lo and behold, they started takin’ 'em down; yep, the Lamanites were swingin’ their swords and givin’ it their best shot.
But bless their hearts, they didn’t stand a chance, their bare skins and heads were wide open to the sharp swords of the Nephites; they were gettin’ cut down left and right, and fell down real quick under the Nephite swords; just like Moroni’s soldier had said would happen.
Now Zerahemnah, seein’ that his folks were about to be wiped out, cried out to Moroni real loud, sayin’ he’d make a peace deal along with his people if they’d spare what was left of their lives, promise they wouldn’t come at ‘em again with war.
Well, Moroni made it so the killing stopped for a spell among the folks. He took the weapons away from the Lamanites; and once they agreed to a peace deal, they were allowed to head out into the wild.
Now they didn’t even bother countin’ how many were dead, 'cause there were just too many; both the Nephites and the Lamanites had suffered great losses.
So they tossed their dead into the waters of Sidon, and them folks floated down and got buried in the deep blue sea.
The Nephites, or Moroni’s crew, they went back home to their houses and lands.
And that’s how the eighteenth year of bein' judged over the people of Nephi came to a close. And that’s how the record of Alma wrapped up, written down on the plates of Nephi.
