Well now, lemme tell ya 'bout the folks of Nephi and all the ruckus they went through back in the days when Helaman was keepin' track of things.
This here story starts up at chapter 62.
So Helaman, that smart fella, he’s got faith in ol’ Alma—Alma's spoutin’ off ‘bout how the Nephites gonna get their comeuppance—He’s blessin’ and cussin’ the land—They say Alma mighta been taken up by the Spirit, kinda like how ol' Moses was—Things was gettin' real heated in the Church. This all went down ‘round 73 B.C.
Well, looky here, the Nephites were happier than a hog in mud, 'cause the Lord done saved their bacon from the bad guys again; so they was givin’ thanks to their God; shoot, they fasted and prayed a heap, and worshipped God with some downright jubilance.
And it so happened in the nineteen years since them judges been runnin’ things over the Nephites, that Alma came up to his boy Helaman and asked him: "Do ya believe what I told ya ‘bout them records we been keepin’?"
And Helaman said back: "Sure do, Pa."
Then Alma asked again: "Do ya got faith in Jesus Christ, the one who's fixin’ to come?"
And Helaman replied: "You bet, I believe every word you laid on me."
Then Alma comes back ‘round again: "Are ya gonna stick to my commandments?"
And Helaman said: "I will, with all my heart, no doubt."
Then Alma told him: "You’re a blessed one; the Lord’s gonna see you through in this here land."
But hold up, I got a bit o’ prophecy to share with ya, but don’t go spillin' it till it all shakes out; write down what I’m fixin’ to say.
These are the words: "Now listen here, I can sense that this very crowd, the Nephites, as I feel it in my bones, in four hundred years after Jesus makes his appearance to 'em, they gonna fade away from faith."
"Yessiree, they gonna be lookin’ at wars and sickness, famines and bloodshed, till the Nephites all but disappear—"
"Yup, and it’s ‘cause they’re gonna slip away from the faith and start dabblin’ in all kinds of darkness and wickedness. I tell you, 'cause they gonna turn their backs on such a bright light and smart knowledge, I say to you, that by the time the fourth generation rolls ‘round, they ain’t all gonna make it before this big ol’ mess hits ‘em."
"And when that great day rolls in, you best believe real soon them folks who are now, or the kin of them folks that’s reckonin’ up the Nephites, they won’t count no more among ‘em."
"But whosoever sticks around and don’t meet their end on that dreadful day, they gonna be lumped in with the Lamanites and be just like ‘em, except for a few who’ll be called the Lord's disciples, and them Lamanites gonna chase ‘em down ‘til they ain’t left.”
"And now, ‘cause of all this sinning, that prophecy will surely come to pass."
Then, after Alma got done spillin’ all this to Helaman, he blessed him and his other boys; and blessed the earth ‘cause of the good folks.
He said: "Here’s what the Lord God says—This land, it’s gonna be cursed, yessir, this land here, for every nation, family, tribe, and tongue that does wrong and gets ripe for destruction; and I’m tellin’ you, that’s how it’s gonna be; that’s the owin' and the blessin' from God on this land, ‘cause the Lord can’t look at sin even a smidge.”
Then Alma, after all this, blessed the church folks, anyone who was gonna stand strong in their faith from that point on.
And once he was through with all that, he took off from Zarahemla, headin' out like he was bound for the land of Melek. But shoot, after that, he just kinda dropped off the map; wouldn’t know nothin' 'bout his death or burial.
But one thing's for sure, this we know—he was as righteous as they come; folks started sayin’ around the church that he got whisked up by the Spirit, or buried by the Lord’s own hand, kinda like Moses did. But the scriptures do say the Lord took Moses up to Him, so we reckon Alma mighta got the same treatment; so we ain't got a clue ‘bout his end and where he was laid to rest.
And then it happened that in the start of that nineteenth year of judge reigning over the Nephites, Helaman set out to spread the Good Word.
‘Cause see, with all them tussles with the Lamanites and the little squabbles and messes that popped up among the folks, it was high time for the word of God to get spread around, and for some rules to get set in the church.
So, Helaman and his brothers got busy tryin’ to get the church back on track all over the land, in every town where the Nephites was livin’. They went ahead and picked out priests and teachers to set things straight in all the churches.
And wouldn’t ya know it, after Helaman and his brothers had put them priests and teachers in place, they started squabblin’ among themselves, and wouldn’t pay no mind to what Helaman and his brothers had to say;
Instead, their heads got too big for their britches, all puffed up ‘cause of their riches; so they thought they was all that, and wouldn’t listen to ‘em, forgettin’ to walk right with God.
