Well, it all started when Amalickiah got himself the crown, and boy, did he start rilin' up the Lamanites against them Nephite folks. Sure as shootin', he got some fellas to holler down at the Lamanites from their high towers, talkin’ all sorts of nonsense ‘bout the Nephites. 
So there he was, stirrin’ up them Lamanites somethin’ fierce, and by the end of the nineteenth year of the judges, he’d done accomplished a whole mess of his tricky schemes. You see, he was king of the Lamanites, but ol' Amalickiah wanted to rule the whole shebang, over all the folks livin' in the land, Nephites and Lamanites alike.
He’d done pulled it off—hardened them Lamanite hearts and fogged up their minds, gettin' them all riled up so they’d gather an army ready to rumble with the Nephites.
He was dead set, ‘cause he had a mighty big bunch of folks behind him, lookin' to take down the Nephites and put 'em in chains.
So he started pickin’ out the top dogs among the Zoramites, ‘cause they knew just how strong the Nephites were and where they liked to hang out, and they knew the soft spots in their towns too; so he made them the big bosses over his troops.
Then they packed up their camp and headed right on over toward the land of Zarahemla, trippin' through the wilds.
Now while Amalickiah was busy playin’ his sneaky games and snaggin’ power, Moroni, on the other hand, was gettin’ the folks ready to stay true to their God.
Yep, he was beefin’ up the Nephite armies and puttin’ up little forts all over the place; stackin' dirt up high around his soldiers and buildin’ stone walls to keep 'em safe, all snug-like, round their towns and lands.
He put the most folks in the spots where they were weakest, so he fortified the land for the Nephites real good.
He was gettin’ ready to defend their freedom, their homes, their families, and their peace, wantin' them to live for the Lord and keep upholdin' what their enemies called the cause of the Christians.
And let me tell ya, Moroni was one strong fella; smart as a whip too, didn't take any pleasure in spillin' blood; his heart sang for his country and his kin, keepin’ 'em from bein’ slaves.
He was a man who filled up with gratitude toward God for all the blessings his people got; always workin’ his fingers to the bone to keep ‘em safe and sound.
And by the way, he was rock solid in his faith in Christ, swore on a stack of bibles to protect his people, their rights, their homeland, and their beliefs, even if it meant spillin' his own blood.
Now them Nephites were taught to stand up for themselves against their foes, ready to shed blood if it came to it; but they also learned not to go lookin’ for trouble, only raisin’ the sword if it was to save their own necks.
Their belief was that if they did that, God would bless them in their land—and if they stayed faithful with His commandments, He’d make sure they prospered. Yep, He'd signal ‘em when to run or prepare for a scrap, dependin’ on the danger they faced.
And also, God would show ‘em where to go to defend themselves against their enemies, and by doin’ all that, the Lord would save ‘em; that was Moroni’s belief, and his heart swelled with pride for it—’cause he wasn’t about spillin’ blood but about doin’ right, keepin’ his kin safe, followin’ the Lord’s commandments, and fightin’ off wickedness.
Now listen here, I tell ya, if all folks were like Moroni, the very gates of hell woulda been rattlin’ forever; the devil wouldn’t have had a lick of power over the hearts of folks.
He was just like Ammon, son of Mosiah, and all them other boys from Mosiah, and Alma too, all ‘em were strong men of God.
And don’t forget Helaman and his crew—didn’t fall short in servin’ the folks just like Moroni; they preached God’s word and baptized folks wanting to repent who would listen to ‘em.
So they went out there, and folks started humblin’ themselves ‘cause of what they said, and the Lord favored ‘em real good, so they didn’t have no squabbles or fights amongst themselves for four whole years.
But like I said, by the end of the nineteenth year, even with all that peace, they felt kinda forced to take on their fellow folks, the Lamanites.
Yep, and to sum it up, the war just didn’t stop for years against the Lamanites, even though they sure were reluctant to get into it.
Now, they hated pickin’ up arms against the Lamanites, ‘cause they weren’t fans of spillin’ blood; and on top of that, they felt terrible sendin’ so many of their brothers off into the next world, not ready to meet God.
But they just couldn’t sit back and let their wives and kids get treated like dirt by them who used to be their brothers, who turned their backs on their faith and joined with the Lamanites to destroy ‘em.
No way they could stand by while their kinfolks celebrated over the blood of the Nephites, not while there were folks still tryin’ to keep God’s commandments, ‘cause the Lord promised that if they did, they’d thrive in the land.
