Well, it was the eleventh month of that nineteen year, on the tenth day, when folks spied them Lamanites rollin' up toward the land of Ammonihah.
Now lemme tell ya, that city was all refurbished and spick-and-span, and ol' Moroni had himself an army sittin' round the edges, settin' up dirt barriers to keep 'em safe from the stones and arrows that them Lamanites tossin' about.
Yep, I mentioned it before, the city of Ammonihah was all rebuilt up again. I’m tellin’ ya, it wasn’t fully fixed yet, neither; them Lamanites had wrecked it once before ‘cause folks were actin’ all kinds of wrong, so they figured it’d be an easy target again.
But boy, were they in for a surprise; ‘cause the Nephites had piled a mighty big ridge of dirt ‘round ‘em, tall enough that the Lamanites couldn’t throw their stones or arrows without it bein’ a wasted effort, and to get at ‘em, they’d have to come through the front gate.
At this point, the big wigs of the Lamanites were just plain flabbergasted, astonished at the Nephites' smart way of settin' up their defenses.
Them leaders thought, ‘cause they had a whole heap of folks, they’d just walk right on in like they done before; and they’d gotten all geared up with shields and breastplates, wearin' thick skins to cover their bare self.
Thinkin’ they was all set, they figured they could just stomp on their brothers and hog-tie 'em or just outright take 'em out, doin' whatever they pleased.
But wouldn’t ya know it, they got the shock of a lifetime; ‘cause the Nephites were geared up to meet ‘em, fightin’ like they’d listen to ol’ Moroni’s battle instructions like never before.
Sure enough, those Lamanites, or the Amalickiahites as folks called 'em, were mighty surprised at how the Nephites prepped themselves for war.
If that King Amalickiah had just shown up from Nephi with his crew, maybe he could’ve gotten them Lamanites to take a swing at the Nephites over in Ammonihah; 'cause he didn’t give a lick about his folks' blood bein' shed.
But as luck would have it, Amalickiah didn't come down to join the fray. His top dogs were way too chicken to go at the Nephites in the city of Ammonihah, 'cause Moroni had shuffled things around so much that the Lamanites couldn’t pull off any sneaky moves.
So, they turned tail into the wild, packin’ up and headin’ toward the land of Noah, thinkin’ it’d be the next best spot to jump on the Nephites.
They had no clue that Moroni had fortified every blessed city around there; so they marched on over to Noah, full of determination, swearing an oath that they’d wipe them folks out.
But lo and behold, to their surprise, the city of Noah, which used to be weak as a kitten, had turned into a fortress by Moroni’s handiwork, even stronger than Ammonihah itself.
Now, you see, Moroni was wise ‘bout this, ‘cause he figured they’d get all spooked over Ammonihah, and since Noah was once the weakest spot, they’d head that way to fight; it all turned out just like he thought it would.
So, Moroni put Lehi in charge over the men in that city; and would ya believe it, that same Lehi was the one who tussled with the Lamanites down in the valley by the Sidon River.
And sure enough, when them Lamanites found out Lehi was in charge, they were mighty let down, ‘cause they were downright scared of that fella; still, their captains had promised to attack, so they went ahead and brought their troops up.
Now, you see, them Lamanites couldn't wiggle into the Nephite fortifications any which way ‘cept through the front entrance, thanks to that high bank they piled up and the deep ditch they dug all around it, there just was no other way in.
So the Nephites were prepped to take out anyone tryin' to scale up and sneak into their fort any other way, throwin’ stones and arrows at ‘em to keep ‘em at bay.
They had a bunch of the strongest men, swords and slings in hand, ready to knock down anyone tryin’ to invade their little safe haven through the entrance; and they were all set to defend themselves against the Lamanites.
Then it happened – the captains of the Lamanites brought their folks up to the front, and tried to crash into the Nephites’ safe spot; but every time they charged, they got pushed back, sufferin’ a whole lotta losses.
When they realized they couldn’t get the upper hand on the Nephites through that entrance, they started diggin’ down those banks to try and find a new way for their army to get through, hopin’ for a fair fight; but instead, they were just met with a hailstorm of stones and arrows, and filled up the ditches with their own dead and wounded.
And just like that, the Nephites had all the power over them foes; the Lamanites kept trying to wipe out the Nephites till all their main commanders were knocked off, with over a thousand Lamanites bite the dust, and not a single Nephite goin' down.
‘Course there were ‘bout fifty who got banged up while catchin’ arrows through the entrance, but thanks to their shields and breastplates and helmets, most of the damage was just on their legs, some pretty bad too.
Then when the Lamanites figured out all their top dogs had bit the dust, they hightailed it into the wild. And wouldn’t ya know it, they skedaddled back to Nephi to spill the beans to their King Amalickiah, who was a Nephite born and bred, about how badly they fared.
You bet he was real hot under the collar with his folks, ‘cause he didn’t get what he wanted outta the Nephites; no yoke of bondage for him to put on ‘em.
Lordy, he was madder than a hornet, cussin’ God and Moroni, swearing up and down he’d drink Moroni’s blood; all ‘cause Moroni had followed God’s commands to keep his people safe.
But on the flip side, the Nephites was givin’ thanks to their Lord God, grateful for his unmatched power that saved ’em from the hands of their enemies.
And that’s how the nineteenth year of the judges’ reign over the Nephites came to a close.
Sure enough, peace was flowin’ amongst ‘em, and the church was doin' better than ever ‘cause they paid heed and worked hard at the word of God, preached to ‘em by Helaman, Shiblon, Corianton, and Ammon and his buddies, yeah, by all them ordained by God’s holy order who were baptized and sent to share the good word.
