Well, let me spin ya a tale 'bout the words that Alma, the High Priest in the good ol' order of God, passed on to the folks 'round their towns and villages all over the land.
Now, let’s kick off with chapter five. 
To get yourself saved, ya gotta turn away from yer sins, mind the commandments, be born anew, wash yer clothes clean in the blood of Christ, be humble as a country mouse, toss that pride and jealousy aside, and do the good works—The Good Shepherd's callin' His children—But those who do the bad works? Well, they’re just minions of the devil—Alma here, he’s shoutin’ ’bout his truth and givin’ folks the straight talk to turn from their wrongdoings—The names of the good folks are penned in that book of life, y’know. This all happened 'round 83 B.C.
So then, it happened that Alma started to share the word of God with the people, first in the land of Zarahemla, and then spreadin’ out across the whole territory.
And these are the very words he said to folks at the church in Zarahemla, just like he wrote down for himself:
I, Alma, bein’ set apart by my dad, who’s also named Alma, to be a high priest for God’s church, havin' been given the power and authority from God to do all this, well, I’m here to tell ya, he started a church over in this land, over towards Nephi; yep, the land they called Mormon; and he went and baptized his brothers right there in those waters of Mormon.
And just so ya know, they got freed from King Noah’s grip, all thanks to God’s mercy and might.
Then, they found themselves all chained up by Lamanites out in the wilderness; yep, I tell ya, they were in captivity, but the Lord came back around and freed ’em again by the power of His word; and we came to this land and started spreadin' out God’s church here too.
Now listen up, brothers and sisters, you who belong to this church, have y’all kept in mind how y’all's ancestors were trapped like rats? And do ya remember how kind and patient God was with 'em? And hey, do ya remember how He saved their souls from hellfire?
Y’all, He changed their hearts; He shook 'em awake from their deep slumber and they came alive for God. They were stuck in darkness; but lo and behold, their souls were lit up by the everlasting word; yes indeed, they were bound up by death and chains of hell, just waitin' on some everlasting destruction.
So let me ask ya, brethren, did they get wiped out? Nah, I tell ya, they did not.
And I gotta ask again, were those death chains broken, and the hell chains loosed around 'em? I’ll tell ya right now, Yes, they were loosed, and their souls stretched out, singing a tune of love that saves. And you betcha, they are saved.
Now I’m wonderin’, what’s the deal on how they got saved? What gave ‘em hope for salvation? What was the reason they were freed from death’s grip and the hell chains?
Well, let me tell ya—didn’t my daddy Alma believe the words that come straight from Abinadi's mouth? Ain’t he a holy prophet? Ain't he been spoutin' God's messages like it’s goin’ outta style, and didn’t my daddy Alma believe ‘em?
And 'cause of his faith, a big ol' change happened in his heart. Now I’m tellin' ya, this is all as true as a blue sky.
And behold, he preached the good word to your daddies, and a mighty change happened in their hearts too, and they humbled themselves, puttin' their trust in the real, livin' God. And looky here, they stuck with it till the end; that’s why they got saved.
Now, I ask y’all, my church family, have ya been brought back to life in God’s way? Do ya see His image in your faces? Have ya felt that big change in your hearts?
Do ya have faith in the One who made ya? Do ya look ahead with faith, and seein' this earthly body raised to live forever, and this old corrupt body turned to incorruption, standin' before God for judgment based on all the things done in this flesh?
I’m askin’ ya, can ya picture hearin' the Lord’s voice callin’ ya one day, sayin': Come on over, y’all blessed ones, 'cause looky here, your works have been good and righteous on this here earth?
Or do you reckon you can stand there and lie to the Lord on that day, sayin’—Lord, our works were good on this Earth—and thinkin’ He’s gonna save ya?
Or is it possible you’ll find yourselves standin' before God, your hearts heavy with guilt and regret, rememberin’ every little sin, knowin’ you broke God’s commandments?
I’m askin’ y’all, can you look up to God on that day with a clean heart and pure hands? Can ya look up, carryin’ the image of God on your faces?
Can ya even imagine bein’ saved when y’all have just given in to the devil’s ways?
I’m tellin’ ya now, you’ll know on that day that savin’ yourselves ain't gonna happen; for nobody can be saved unless their clothes are made white; yep, those garments gotta be cleaned ’til they shine bright and pure from all stain, through the blood of the One who was said to come to redeem His people from their sins.
Now I wanna know, my brothers, how y’all gonna feel when ya stand before God, wearin' stained clothes soaked in blood and all sorts of dirt? What’s that gonna say 'bout ya?
Let me tell ya, ain’t they gonna speak of you bein' a murderer, yeah, and guilty of all kinds of wickedness?
Now, my friends, do ya really think such a person can sit alongside Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, and all those holy prophets with their clean and spotless garments?
I’m tellin’ ya, No; unless y’all are willin’ to call God a liar from day one, you can’t say folks like that have any place in heaven; they’ll just be thrown out ‘cause they’re children of the kingdom of the devil.
Now hear me out, brothers, if you've felt a change of heart, and if ya feel like singin' that song of redeeming love, I’m askin’ ya, y’all feel that way now?
Have ya walked blameless before God? Could ya say, if your time was up right now, that you've been humble enough? That your clothes have been made white and clean through the blood of Christ, who is here to redeem His people from their sins?
Now tell me, are ya stripped of pride? I’m here to say, if not, ya ain’t ready to face God. You gotta get ready quick; heaven’s door is swingin’ open, and those not ready won’t have eternal life.
Now, let me ask, is there anyone among ya who ain’t stripped down of envy? Let me tell ya, if that’s you, you just ain’t ready; and I sure hope you get that act together fast, ‘cause the hour’s comin' and you never know when it’s gonna hit; ’cause folks like that ain’t gonna be found guilt-free.
And I gotta say again, is there anyone here thinkin’ it’s funny to mock his brother or throw some hurtin’ words at him?
Well shoot, woe to that person, ‘cause they ain't ready, and time's flyin' fast, they better repent or they're gonna miss out!
Yes sir, woe to all you folks doin’ wrong; repent, repent, ‘cause the Lord God’s spoken on it!
Look here, He’s throwin’ out an invite to all; the arms of mercy are stretched wide, and He’s sayin’: Repent, and I’ll welcome ya with open arms.
Yes, He’s sayin’: Come on over, partake of the good stuff from the tree of life; ye shall eat and drink the bread and the waters of life without cost;
So, come on over and do those good works, and you won’t be chopped down and tossed into the fire—
'Cause you see, the time’s rollin' near, and whoever don’t produce good fruit, or doesn’t do those righteous deeds, well, they’re gonna have themselves a reason to howl and moan.
Oh you folks doin’ wrong; you who think too highly of yourselves with all that fancy stuff, professin' to know the good ways yet wanderin’ off like sheep without a shepherd, even though a shepherd’s been callin’ out for ya and still is, but you ain’t listenin’!
Listen here, the good shepherd’s callin’ you; and in His own name, which is Christ’s, He’s callin’ ya; and if you don’t heed the good shepherd’s voice, the name you’re known by, well, you ain’t part of His flock.
Now if you ain’t His sheep, what fold are ya belongin' to? I’ll tell ya what, the devil’s your shepherd, and you’re sittin' right in his fold; and now, who can deny that? I’m tellin’ ya, whoever denies this is a flat-out liar and a child of the devil.
‘Cause everything good comes from God, and all evil? Well that’s straight from the devil.
So if a man’s doin’ good works, he’s listenin’ to the good shepherd and followin’ right behind Him; but anyone doin’ evil works? They’re followin' the devil, and his voice leads ‘em, too.
And whoever goes that route's gonna get his dues from the devil; their pay is death, only dead to all good works.
Now, my brothers, I want ya to hear me loud and clear; I’m spillin’ my heart out here; and listen, I’ve told ya straight so ya can’t get it wrong, just as God’s commandments say.
‘Cause I’m called to share this way, in the holy order of God through Christ Jesus; and I’m commanded to stand here and testify to y’all about what our fathers spoke concerning what’s comin’ down the pike.
And that ain't all. Do ya really think I don’t know these things myself? Oh, I’m here to tell ya I know they’re true. And how do I know this, you ask?
Well, it’s been made clear to me by the Holy Spirit of God. I’ve fasted and prayed for many days tryin’ to figure these things out for myself. And now I know for sure they’re true; ‘cause the Lord God made it clear to me by His Holy Spirit; this here’s the spirit of revelation runnin’ through me.
Plus, I’m tellin’ you that it’s been revealed to me that the words our fathers spoke are true, just like the spirit of prophecy is in me, the same spirit of God’s revelation.
I say it loud and proud, I know for sure that anything I gotta share with you 'bout what’s gonna happen is true; and I know Jesus Christ is comin’, yessiree, the Son, God’s Only Begotten, packed with grace, mercy, and truth. And let me tell ya, He’s here to take away the world’s sins, yes, every last one of ‘em who truly believes in His name.
And now I’m tellin’ ya, this is the deal I’m called to follow, preachin’ to my dear brothers and sisters, and everyone sittin’ in this land; to share the word with all, young and old, bond and free; I’m shoutin’ at ya to repent and be brought back to life again.
Yep, the Spirit’s speaking, sayin’, Repent, all you folks out there, 'cause heaven’s comin’ soon; the Son of God is comin' in His glory, might, majesty, power, and dominion. My dear ones, I tell ya, the Spirit’s sayin’: Behold the King of all the earth’s glory; and also the King of heaven's gonna shine bright among all our kind.
And the Spirit’s hollerin’ at me, strong as can be, sayin’: Get on out there and tell these folks to repent, ‘cause if ya ain't repentin’, ya ain’t gettin' in the kingdom of heaven.
And I’ll say it again, be warned, the ax is hittin’ at that tree’s root; and any tree not bearin’ good fruit will be chopped down and thrown in the fire, a fire that can’t be put out, even an unquenchable fire. Pay attention now, 'cause the Holy One's said it.
So listen here, my beloved brethren, can you stand up to what I’m sayin’; can ya really brush it aside, trample the Holy One underfoot; can ya stay puffed up with pride in your hearts; will ya still strut around in your fancy clothes and chase after the empty things of this world and your riches?
Will ya keep on thinkin’ you’re better than others; will ya keep messin’ with your brothers who’ve humbled themselves and follow God’s true path, the path that got ‘em into this church, purified by the Holy Spirit, bringing forth good works worthy of repentance—
And will you keep turning your back on the poor and needy, holdin’ back what you could be givin’?
And finally, all you folks who keep on livin’ wickedly, I’m tellin’ ya, those are the ones who’ll get chopped down and thrown into the fire unless they wake up and repent.
And now I’m tellin’ ya, all y’all who are eager to follow the good shepherd’s voice, come out from among the wicked, be separate, and don’t touch their unclean stuff; ‘cause their names will be scratched off the list, and the wicked's names will not mix with the good folks’, so God’s word can come true, sayin': The names of the wicked won’t mingle with His people’s names;
‘Cause the names of the righteous are written in that book of life, and I’m gonna give them an inheritance right at my side. Now, brethren, what do you have to say about this? I’m tellin’ ya, if ya speak against it, it don’t matter none, ‘cause God’s word’s gonna come true, come what may.
For tell me, what good shepherd lettin’ his flock roam doesn’t keep an eye out for the wolves tryin’ to sneak in and snack on his sheep? And if a wolf tries to sneak in, don’t he run him off? Sure does, and if he can, he’ll put that wolf to an end.
And now, I’m tellin’ ya, the good shepherd’s callin’ you; and if you’ll listen to his voice, he’ll bring ya into his fold, and y’all will be His sheep; and He’s givin’ ya orders to make sure no mean ol' wolf gets in there and snatches ya away, so y’all won’t be destroyed.
So I, Alma, right here, am tellin’ you like the one who told me, to stick to what I’ve said to ya.
I’m speakin’ as a command to ya who belong to the church; and to those who ain’t part of the church, I’m givin’ an invite, sayin’: Come and get baptized, turnin’ to repentance, so y’all can share in the good fruit from the tree of life.
