Well, lemme spin ya a tale 'bout Moroni who wasn’t gonna sit on his hands waitin’ fer trouble, no sir! He got his folks ready to take on them Lamanites, makin’ sure his armies jumped right into action at the start of the twentieth year of them judges, diggin’ up dirt all ‘round every city the Nephites called home.
So up on them dirt piles, he made sure they put up some timber, not just any ol’ planks, but sturdy beams built up high ‘nuff for a fella to stand on, all around them cities.
And right on top of them timbers, he had ‘em build a frame of pickets, strong and tall like a ole’ fence that ain’t gonna blow over in a storm.
He even had ‘em put up towers lookin' over all them pickets, settin' up safe spots up there so them Lamanites’ stones and arrows wouldn't do no harm to his crew.
They were set to throw stones down on any poor soul that dared to come too close to them city walls, I tell ya, they had the upper hand!
That’s how Moroni set up them strongholds 'gainst any enemies comin’ their way, all ‘round every town in that whole land.
Then it happened that Moroni sent his armies out into that east wilderness, chasin’ off all them Lamanites back to where they belonged, which was down south from Zarahemla.
Now the land of Nephi stretched straight all the way from the east sea to the west, kinda like a long ol' ribbon.
Once Moroni had run all those Lamanites outta the east wilds, which were sittin' north of their own lands, he told the folks in Zarahemla to head out to that east wilderness, right by the seaside, and take up the land.
And he didn’t stop there, no ma’am! He got more armies down south, guardin’ their own land, makin’ sure to build up them fortifications to keep their people safe from those pesky enemies.
So he cut off all them Lamanite strongholds in that east wilderness, and also in the west, makin’ a fortified line ‘tween the Nephites and Lamanites, from Zarahemla to Nephi, from the west sea, up near the head of Sidon River—the Nephites holdin’ onto all land northward, all the way up past Bountiful, just like they wanted.
And so, with his armies growin’ day by day thanks to the shieldin’ his works provided, Moroni sought to zap the strength and power of the Lamanites off their land, hopin’ they wouldn’t have no hold on it no more.
Sure 'nuff, the Nephites began buildin’ a city and called it Moroni, sittin’ right by the east sea and on the south side by the Lamanites’ land.
They also started buildin’ another city ‘tween Moroni and Aaron, joinin’ the two, callin' it Nephihah.
And in that very same year, they got busy buildin’ a whole mess of cities up north, and there was one in particular they named Lehi, right up by the seashore.
And just like that, the twentieth year came to a close.
Now in that fine and happy state, the Nephite folks kicked off the twenty-first year'a judges over them.
And boy howdy did they thrive! They got rich faster than a dog chasin’ a rabbit, and they multiplied like bunnies in spring.
You see, it shows how merciful and fair the Lord is with all his dealings, fulfilin’ every last word He’s ever said to folks; why, we can see right now how true His words are, just like He told Lehi way back when:
“Blessed are you and your kin; they’re gonna be blessed, as long as they keep my commandments. But don’t forget, if they don’t keep ‘em, they’re gonna be cut off from my presence.”
Well, we see it for sure, them promises held true for the Nephites; they had loads of fussin’ and fightin’, and their wicked ways of murd'rin’, plunderin’, idol-worshippin’, and all them abominations brought ‘em nothin’ but wars and woes.
But the folks who stuck with the Lord and His commandments got saved at all times, while thousands of their nasty kinfolk got stuck in bondage or perished by the sword, or faded away in doubt, endin' up with them Lamanites.
Now I tell ya, there ain’t been a happier time for the Nephites since Nephi himself, especially back in the days of Moroni, even in that twenty-first year of judges.
And it all rolled ‘round that the twenty-second year of judges ended up peaceful too, ‘long with the twenty-third.
Then at the start of the twenty-fourth year of judges, there surely coulda been peace among the Nephites, ‘cept for a quarrel ‘bout the land of Lehi and Morianton, which was right by the seashore.
See, them folks over in Morianton was claimin’ a slice of Lehi, which sparked a good ol’ heated argument, so much so that the Morianton folks grabbed their guns to fight back against their own kin.
But the Lehi folks, bless their hearts, they skedaddled over to Moroni’s camp, askin’ for his help, ‘cause they weren’t the bad guys here.
Well, when those Morianton folks, led by a fella named Morianton, found out that the Lehi clan had run off to Moroni's camp, they got all kinds of scared thinkin’ Moroni’s army was gonna come stomp ‘em down.
So, Morianton put it in their heads that they oughta skedaddle up north, where there was a whole mess of water, and take over that land.
Honestly, they coulda pulled this stunt off (which woulda been a shame), but seein’ as Morianton had a bit of a temper, he went and took it out on one of his maids, beatin' on her real good.
Next thing ya know, she skedaddled on over to Moroni’s camp and spilled the beans, tellin’ him all ‘bout what was up and their plans to flee north.
Now Moroni, bless him, heard that and was worried the folks in Bountiful, or really Moroni, might just listen to Morianton and team up with him, which could lead to big trouble for the Nephites, a big ol' messin’ with their freedom.
So Moroni sent out an army, camp and all, to catch them Morianton folks before they could escape to the north.
Sure enough, they didn’t catch ‘em until they got near the borders of the land Desolation; there they caught up with 'em at a narrow pass by the sea headin’ north, you know, by water both on the west and east sides.
And wouldn’t ya know it, that army sent by Moroni, led by a fella named Teancum, met up with Morianton’s crew. Now, the Morianton folks, bein' all stubborn from their wickedness and sweet talkin’, started a ruckus, and wouldn’t you know it, Teancum took ‘em down, slayin’ Morianton and capturing the rest of ‘em, then headed back to camp with his prize. That there wrapped up the twenty-fourth year of judges over the Nephites.
So, there ya have it—those Morianton folks were brought back home. And as soon as they promised to play nice, they got restored to their land, makin’ amends with the Lehi folks, and everybody got back what was theirs.
That same year, the Nephites finally got their peace back, but then Nephihah, the fella sittin’ as their chief judge, passed away, holdin’ that seat upright ‘fore God.
But he wouldn’t let Alma take them records he thought were super sacred, so Alma handed ‘em over to his boy, Helaman.
Now, lo and behold, Nephihah’s son was picked to take over that judgment seat in his daddy’s place; yep, he was the new chief judge and governor, takin’ an oath to do right by the people, keepin’ peace and freedom, and grantin’ ‘em their rights to worship their God, doin’ his best to support God’s work all his days, and bringin’ the wicked to justice as they deserved.
And wouldn’t ya know his name was Pahoran? He stepped right into his father’s shoes and kicked off his reign at the end o' the twenty-fourth year, takin’ charge of the Nephite folks.
