Well, it happened that right at the start of the twenty-fifth year of them judges bein' in charge of the folks in Nephi, they done settled things down real nice-like 'tween the Lehi folks and the Morianton crew about their land, and kicked off that year in a pretty peaceful way.
But hold on now, it didn’t take long before them folks stirred up a ruckus, ‘cause they was fussin’ ‘bout the chief judge Pahoran. You see, some folks was hopin’ to change a few little laws around.
But here’s the thing, ol’ Pahoran wasn’t havin' none of that—he wasn’t gonna budge on the law one bit; he didn’t listen to them folks who sent in their petitions tryin’ to get things changed.
So them folks who wanted to see some changes got hotter than a pepper sprout with him, and they figured they didn’t want him as their chief judge anymore. This led to a big ol' debate, but thank the Lord, nobody ended up hurtin’ each other.
Eventually, them folks who wanted Pahoran kicked outta his judge’s seat got themselves called king-men, seein’ as how they wanted to change the laws just enough to knock that free government down a peg and put a king in charge.
Now, the ones who was standin’ by Pahoran and wanted him to keep on judgin’ took up the name freemen; and that's how they divided up, ‘cause the freemen had promised to keep hangin’ on to their rights and their way of worship through that free government.
Well, it all came to a head when the people had their say. And wouldn’t ya know, the folks rallied behind the freemen, so Pahoran kept his judge seat, which led to quite a bit of hoopin' and hollerin’ from his supporters and the liberty-loving crowd, who quieted down the king-men so much that they didn’t dare speak up against freedom.
Now, ‘round them parts, the ones who favored them kings was folks from the upper crust, and they were fixin’ to become kings themselves; they had a whole bunch backin' ‘em up who wanted power over the rest.
But here’s the kicker, it was a real rough time for them arguments to be flyin’ around in Nephi, ‘cause that rascal Amalickiah had gone and stirred up trouble with the Lamanites against the Nephites again, gatherin’ soldiers from all over his land and gettin’ ‘em all strapped up for a fight; he was dead set on spillin’ Moroni's blood.
Now, whether he made that promise or not, it was a foolish one; still, the man was gettin’ ready for a brawl with the Nephites.
Now, his army weren’t as big as it had been before, seein’ as many had been dropped by Nephite hands; but don’t let that fool ya, Amalickiah still wrangled together a mighty big bunch, enough that he didn’t fear comin’ into Zarahemla.
He even strutted down himself, leading the Lamanite bunch. This was all in the twenty-fifth year of them judges sittin', right when they was still tryin’ to figure out what to do ‘bout them disputes over Pahoran.
So it was that when them king-men caught wind that the Lamanites were fixin’ to battle, they was happier than a pig in mud; and they didn’t wanna take up arms, 'cause they was just too mad at Pahoran and them freedom-lovin’ folks to defend their own land.
When Moroni caught on to this and saw them Lamanites movin’ into their borders, he was hotter than a two-dollar pistol, ‘cause he’d worked his tail off to keep them folks safe, and here they were bein' so stubborn; his heart was filled with rage.
So he sent a petition, representin’ the people, to the governor, askin’ him to give him (that’s Moroni) the power to make those naysayers defend their country or else face the hangman's noose.
His main concern was to put a stop to all that fussin’ and feudin’ between folks, 'cause that had been messin’ up everything so far. And lo and behold, it got approved just like the people wanted.
Then Moroni made it clear to his troops to march against them king-men, to knock ‘em down a peg or two and wipe out their big ol' pride, or else they better grab their weapons and join the freedom fight.
So they marched right up against ‘em, and boy howdy, they sure did humble them king-men; as soon as they raised their weapons against Moroni’s men, they got cut down and brought low.
There were four thousand of those dissenters who met their maker by the sword; and the ones that didn’t get crushed in battle were locked up, ‘cause there just wasn’t time for trials right then.
And the rest of 'em, well, they figured it was better to raise the banner of liberty than meet their end with a sword, so they went ahead and hoisted that liberty flag up high on their towers and in their towns, and took up arms to defend what was theirs.
And that’s how Moroni ended them king-men, so there was no longer anyone called by that name; he made ‘em get humble like the others and fight bravely for their freedom from bondage.
While Moroni was busy settlin’ down the wars and fussin’ in his own camp, bringin’ ‘em back to peace and civilization, gettin’ ready for a scrap with the Lamanites, you better believe them Lamanites had come in spooking around Moroni’s land, which was right there by the seashore.
And the Nephites just didn’t have the manpower in Moroni, so Amalickiah pushed ‘em back, takin’ out a whole lot of ‘em. And lo and behold, Amalickiah took the city, lock, stock, and barrel, right along with all their defenses.
The folks who got away from Moroni ran on over to Nephihah, while them Lehi folks gathered ‘round, readying themselves to stand up against the Lamanites.
But then Amalickiah wouldn’t let them Lamanites march right into Nephihah, keepin’ ‘em down low by the shores, leavin’ some men in every town to guard it.
And so, he kept on keepin’ on, takin’ over a heap of cities, like Nephihah, Lehi, Morianton, Omner, Gid, and Mulek—every last one right there on the eastern waterfront.
With Amalickiah and his slick ways, the Lamanites cuffed a whole lotta cities with their countless troops, and they was all fortified just like Moroni’s strongholds, settin’ up some mighty fine defenses for the Lamanites.
Next thing you know, they was marchin’ to the border of the land of Bountiful, pushin’ the Nephites ahead of ‘em and takin’ out a whole slew.
But then Teancum showed up, the same fella who had taken Morianton’s head and led his people on a speedy escape.
And wouldn’t ya know, he crossed paths with Amalickiah too, as he was marchin’ on with his big ol' army to claim Bountiful and those northern lands.
However, ol’ Teancum wasn’t gonna let that slide, and he sent ‘em packin’, 'cause they was fierce fighters; every last warrior of Teancum was stronger and more skilled in battle than them Lamanites.
So they went to work on ‘em, takin’ ‘em down ‘til it was all dark. Then Teancum and his men set up camp at the edge of Bountiful; and Amalickiah laid his camp down on the beach.
When night rolled in, Teancum and his buddy snuck out and crept into Amalickiah’s camp, and boy, them fellas was so tuckered out from all the day’s work, they couldn't even keep their eyes open.
Teancum slipped right into that there king’s tent and jabbed him in the heart with a javelin, takin’ him out before his men even knew what hit ‘em.
Then he quietly made his way back to his own camp, and when he arrived, his men was still sleepin’. He woke ‘em up and told ‘em about his little adventure.
And he got his troops all lined up just in case them Lamanites woke up and tried to come for them.
And that’s how the twenty-fifth year of them judges over the Nephites wrapped up; and with that, the days of Amalickiah came to an end.
