Well now, in the twenty-sixth year of them judges runnin’ things for the folks of Nephi, lemme tell ya, the Lamanites woke up bright ‘n early on the first mornin’ of the first month, and wouldn’t ya know it, they found that Amalickiah had kicked the bucket right there in his own tent; ‘n Teancum was just itchin’ for a fight that day.
So when them Lamanites caught wind of this, they got all spooked like a cat in a room full of rockin’ chairs; they said, “Naw, we ain’t marchin' north no more!” and hightailed it with their whole army back to Mulek, lookin’ to hide behind their walls.
Then it turns out Amalickiah’s brother got the crown, name of Ammoron; so King Ammoron, ya see, he was tagged to take charge just like his brother did before.
Ain't it a trip that he ordered his folks to hold on to them cities they snatched up by spillin' blood; ‘cause let’s be real, they hadn’t taken a single city without payin’ the price with a heap of blood.
Now Teancum, he noticed the Lamanites weren’t budgin’ on givin’ up them cities they had grabbed, ‘n with the sheer number of them, he thought best not to go charging into their strongholds.
But he kept his crew all gathered ‘round like they were plannin’ for a show down; absolutely, he was just settin’ up to protect his own self, buildin’ walls, and makin’ spots for his boys to retreat to.
It was like this for a while, till Moroni sent a big ol’ bunch of reinforcements to beef up his crew.
And Moroni told him straight up that he better hang onto every prisoner he caught; since the Lamanites had snagged a fair few, he was gonna need them to trade for the folks the Lamanites had taken.
Not only that, Moroni ordered him to shore up the land Bountiful and lock down that skinny path leadin' north, ‘cause he didn’t want the Lamanites slippin’ through there and causin’ ’em trouble from both sides.
Moroni also had a word for him, tellin’ him to stay on the job protectin’ that part of the land and look for any chance to put the hurt on the Lamanites; maybe he could sneak back them towns that had slipped away from ‘em, and also, make sure the towns they still had weren’t givin’ in.
He said, “I’d sure love to come see ya, but the Lamanites are comin' down on us by the west sea, and I’m headin’ straight for ‘em, so I can’t swing by.”
Well, King Ammoron was outta the land of Zarahemla, lettin’ the queen in on his brother’s sad news, gatherin’ up a ruck of folks, and marchin’ against the Nephites over by that west sea.
And so he was tryin’ to mess with the Nephites, drawin’ off some of their folks to one side, while he told his crew back where he left ‘em to keep messin’ with the Nephites on the east sea, tryin’ to swipe whatever land they could get their hands on with the might they had.
And that’s how the Nephites found themselves in a heap of trouble at the end of the twenty-sixth year of them judges settlin’ things for the folks of Nephi.
But then, in the twenty-seventh year of the judges' reign, Teancum, with Moroni’s orders—who had put together armies to stand guard over the southern and western edges of the land, was fixin’ to head toward Bountiful to help Teancum take back what was lost—
Teancum got the go-ahead to strike at Mulek, hopin’ to take it back if it was at all possible.
So Teancum was gearin' up to attack Mulek, and he was lookin’ to march out with his army against the Lamanites; but he figured, with them all holed up tight in their fort, there was no way he could get the upper hand, so he scrapped that plan and headed back to Bountiful to wait on Moroni’s help.
Finally, Moroni showed up with his army at Bountiful’s doorstep right ‘round the end of the twenty-seventh year of judges rul’in’ Nephi people.
As the twenty-eighth year kicked off, Moroni, Teancum, and a slew of top commanders got together to chew the fat about how to lure them Lamanites out for a fight; or maybe sweet-talk ‘em outta their hidey holes to give themselves an edge to take back Mulek.
They sent some fellers to the Lamanite camp guardin’ Mulek, gettin' a hold of their head honcho, named Jacob, askin' him if he’d send his boys out to meet ‘em on the plains ‘tween the two towns. But Jacob, bein' a Zoramite and all, just flat out refused to come down.
Then Moroni, seein’ he wasn’t gonna get a fair fight, thought up a plan to coax the Lamanites out of their hideout.
So he had Teancum take a handful of men marchin’ towards the shore; while Moroni and his army snuck through the brush on the west side of Mulek; and come the next mornin’, when the Lamanite guards spotted Teancum, they bolted off to tell Jacob.
Well, wouldn’t ya know it, the Lamanite armies came marchin' hard against Teancum, thinkin’ they’d wipe the floor with him since he had so few men. But as Teancum saw ‘em comin’, he started backin’ up towards the shore, headin' north.
Once the Lamanites saw him make a break for it, they got all fired up and chased after him with a vengeance. And while Teancum was leadin’ ‘em away on a wild goose chase, there was Moroni givin’ the nod for some of his boys to march right into the city and take it back.
And sure enough, they did just that, takin' out all the fellers left behind to guard the place, yep, everyone who wouldn’t hand over their weapons.
So there was Moroni, takin’ over Mulek with some of his crew, while he sent the rest off to confront the Lamanites when they were done chasin’ Teancum.
The Lamanites kept at it till they neared Bountiful, where they ran right into Lehi and a small band he’d left to protect the city.
Now when the top brass of the Lamanites laid eyes on Lehi and his folks comin’ for 'em, they skedaddled off in a hurry, afraid they wouldn’t reach Mulek before Lehi caught wind of their tails; tired from their trek, and Lehi’s men were full of beans.
Now, the Lamanites were just clueless that Moroni was right behind ‘em with his army; all they knew to fear was Lehi and his men.
Lehi wasn’t too keen on catchin' ‘em before they ran into Moroni and his folks.
Before long, though, the Lamanites weren’t gettin’ too far before they found themselves boxed in by the Nephites, with Moroni’s boys on one side and Lehi’s crew on the other, all bright-eyed and full of energy; while the Lamanites were already worn out from their long journey.
And Moroni hollered at his men to pounce on ‘em till they surrendered their weapons. 
And right then, Jacob, bein’ their big cheese, a Zoramite with a fire in his belly, he led the Lamanites into battle with a fury that could heat up the kettle.
Moroni was standin’ right in their path, and Jacob was hell-bent on takin’ ‘em down to clear a way to Mulek. But what do ya know, Moroni and his boys had the grit to hold their ground; they weren’t givin’ in to them Lamanites.
They fought tooth and nail with sheer wrath; there were bodies droppin’ left and right, no doubt, ‘n Moroni got dinged up while Jacob met his end.
Lehi pressed hard on ‘em from the back with such strength that the ones in the rear surrendered their weapons; and the rest, all flustered, didn’t know where to run or fight.
Seein’ all that chaos, Moroni called out, “If ya’ll bring out your weapons ‘n hand ‘em over, we ain’t gonna spill your blood.”
And when the Lamanites heard those words, their captains, the ones still breathin’, stepped up and threw down their weapons in front of Moroni, tellin’ their men to do the same.
But bless their hearts, a heap wouldn’t do it; and the stubborn ones who kept their swords drawn got tied up, their weapons took from ‘em, and they were forced to shuffle along with the others back to the land of Bountiful.
And wouldn’t ya know, they ended up with more prisoners than folks that had been taken down, yeah, more than the ones lost on both sides.
