Well, it happened that they set some guards over them Lamanite prisoners, and made 'em go on and bury their dead, ya know, and also the Nephites that got themselves killed; and Moroni went ahead and put some folks in charge of keepin' an eye on 'em while they did their work.
Then Moroni headed over to the town of Mulek with his buddy Lehi, took charge of the city, and handed it off to Lehi. Now, lemme tell ya, this Lehi was a fella who'd been through most of the battles with Moroni; he was cut from the same cloth, and they sure were happy about each other’s safety; they were fond of one another, along with all the folks of Nephi.
It came to pass that after the Lamanites got done buryin' their folks, and the Nephites, they marched back into Bountiful; and Teancum, under Moroni's orders, got 'em to start diggin’ a big ol’ ditch all around Bountiful.
Then he had 'em build a sturdy wall of timber on the inside of that ditch, and they piled up dirt from the ditch against that timber wall; and sure enough, it made them Lamanites work ‘til they had fenced in the whole city of Bountiful with a solid wall of wood and dirt, taller than a mule’s back.
And from then on, that city turned into a mighty fortress; and they kept them Lamanite prisoners in there, all behind that wall they built with their own hands. Now Moroni had to make those Lamanites work, 'cause it was a whole lot easier to keep ‘em in check while they were busy; and he wanted all his troops ready whenever he decided to charge at the Lamanites.
Well, wouldn’t ya know it, Moroni pulled off a victory over one of the biggest armies of the Lamanites, and he took control of the city of Mulek, which was one of the Lamanite’s strongest holdouts in Nephi; and he also built a strong spot to keep his prisoners safe.
Then it came to pass that he didn’t try to fight the Lamanites again that year, but instead kept his folks busy gettin’ ready for war, makin’ fortifications to stay safe from the Lamanites, and helpin’ out their women and kids who were sufferin’, puttin’ food on the table for their armies.
Now, it came to pass that the Lamanites on the western sea, down south, took advantage while Moroni was busy dealin' with some folks stirrin' up trouble 'mongst the Nephites, which caused a whole mess of fighting among 'em, and they started taking over a handful o' Nephite cities in that part of the land.
And all this happened 'cause of the wickedness among themselves, yeah, 'cause of their squabblin' and schemin', they found themselves in a real risky spot.
Now, I gotta say somethin' 'bout the folks of Ammon, who once were Lamanites; but thanks to Ammon and his crew, or better yet, through the power of God, they’d been converted to follow the Lord; and they got brought down into the land of Zarahemla, where the Nephites kept ‘em safe ever since.
Because of their swearin’, they stayed clear of fightin’ against their own kin; seein’ as they promised they wouldn’t spill blood anymore; and stickin’ to that promise could have cost 'em their lives, like they’d rather have given up than hurt their own, if it weren't for the empathy and deep love Ammon and his brothers had for ‘em.
So, that’s why they came down to the land of Zarahemla; and them Nephites always had their backs.
But then, when they saw the real danger and the troubles and struggles the Nephites faced for their sakes, their hearts were broken, and they were itching to take up arms to defend their land.
But hold on now, just as they were fixin’ to grab their weapons, they got persuaded not to by Helaman and his boys, ‘cause they were close to breakin' the oath they had taken.
And Helaman was worried that they’d lose their souls doin’ so; so all those who’d made that promise had to watch their kin go through their sufferin’ in such tough times.
But wouldn’t ya know it, they had a heap of sons who hadn’t made no promise to not fight to protect themselves against enemies; so they gathered up all the ones who could grab a weapon right then, and called themselves Nephites.
They made a promise to fight for the freedom of the Nephites, yeah, to hold up the land even if it meant givin' their lives; they vowed they'd never give up their liberty and would fight in every case to keep the Nephites and themselves from bein' bound.
Now, there was a goodly two thousand of these youngins who made that promise and took up arms to defend their homeland.
And now, let me tell ya, they ain’t never been a burden to the Nephites before, and now they were a mighty help; they got their weapons ready and wanted Helaman to lead 'em.
All of ‘em were young fellas, brave as could be, strong and quick on their feet; but that ain't all—they were straight shooters who could be trusted no matter what task they were handed.
Yep, they were honest and serious, ‘cause they’d been raised to obey God’s commandments and walk right by Him.
And it came to pass that Helaman took the lead with his two thousand young soldiers, headin' out to support the folks at the southern borders by the west sea.
And that’s how the twenty-eighth year of judges over the Nephites wrapped up.
