Ammoron and Moroni chattin' 'bout swappin' prisoners—Moroni's insistin' that them Lamanites better skedaddle and stop all this murderin'—Ammoron’s all like, “Y’all gotta lay down yer weapons an' become our subjects.” 'Bout 63 B.C.
Well, it was the start of the twenty-ninth year of them judges, and Ammoron sent a message to Moroni hopin’ for a little prisoner swap.
Moroni, he was downright tickled pink at this request, 'cause he was wishin' for food for them Lamanite prisoners to help feed his folks; and he was also hopin' to get some of his own back to beef up his army.
Now them Lamanites had grabbed up lots of women and little ones, and there wasn’t a single woman or child in all the prisoners Moroni had nabbed; so Moroni hatched a clever plan to snag as many Nephite prisoners as he could from the Lamanites.
So, he jotted down a letter and sent it along with Ammoron’s servant, the same feller who brought a letter to Moroni. These are the words he penned to Ammoron, sayin':
Now listen here, Ammoron, I’m writin’ to ya 'bout this here war yer folks started up against my people, or really what yer brother kicked off, which y’all are still dead set on carryin’ out even after he’s pushed up daisies.
Now, I gotta say a few things 'bout God’s justice and that sword of His mighty wrath hangin' 'round yer neck, unless y’all repent and pack yer armies back to yer own land, or what y’all claim is yer land, which is Nephi territory.
Sure, I’d tell ya all this if you could actually listen; I’d talk about that terrible hell waitin' to welcome fellas like you an’ yer brother, unless you smarten up and drop them murderous plans, headin’ back with your lot to yer own grounds.
But since y’all have already turned yer backs on this once and fought against God’s people, I reckon you’ll just keep doin’ it.
And let me tell ya, we’re ready to take ya on; if ya don’t change yer mind, you’re gonna bring down the wrath of the God you’ve turned away from right down on ya, bringin’ about your own doom.
But as sure as the Lord lives, our armies are comin’ for ya unlessn’ you back off, and you’re gonna be feelin' that death visitin’ ya mighty soon, ‘cause we’re not givin’ up our towns and lands; yessir, we’re standin’ firm for our faith and the cause of our God.
But heck, I reckon I’m wastin’ my breath talkin' to you like this; or maybe you’re just a child of hell; so I’ll wrap this up by sayin’ I ain’t swappin' prisoners unless y’all give me a man, his wife, and his kiddos for just one of yours; if you’re willin’, I’ll trade.
And listen here, if you don’t do this, I’m comin’ for ya with my armies; I’ll even arm my women and kiddos, and I’ll follow you right back to yer own neck of the woods, the land where we first settled; it’ll be blood for blood, life for life, and I’ll fight ya till you’re wiped off the face of this earth.
I’m fired up, and my folks are too; y’all been lookin’ to kill us, and we’ve just been tryin’ to protect ourselves. But I swear, if you keep tryin’ to wipe us out, we’ll sure as heck try to wipe you out; we're comin’ for our land, the land of our ancestors.
Now I’m done with this letter. I’m Moroni; I’m leadin’ the Nephite folks.
So then Ammoron, once he got this letter, was hotter than a goat in a pepper patch; he wrote back to Moroni, and here’s what he had to say:
I’m Ammoron, king of the Lamanites; I’m the brother of that Amalickiah fella y’all done murdered. Mark my words, I’m gonna avenge his blood on ya, and I’ll come at ya with my armies ‘cause I ain't scared of your threats.
See, your folks done wronged their brothers so bad that they snatched the government right from under ‘em when it rightfully belonged to ‘em.
Now listen here, if y’all lay down yer arms, let yerselves be ruled by the folks who should rightly have the power, I’ll make sure my people put down their weapons and we won’t go to war no more.
Now, I see you been blowin’ a lot of hot air ‘bout threatenin’ me and my people; but we ain’t scared of what you sayin’.
Still, I’ll gladly swap prisoners just to keep my food stocked up for my soldiers; and we’ll fight a war that could go on forever, either makin’ the Nephites bow to our power or seein’ them snuffed out for good.
And ‘bout that God you say we’ve turned our backs on, well, we don’t know nothin’ ‘bout that; an’ neither do you; but if there’s a God, maybe He made us just like He made you.
And if there’s a devil and a hell, won’t He send you there to hang out with my brother you went and killed, you hinted that he’s gone to that kind of place? But honestly, it don’t matter none.
I’m Ammoron, and I’m kin to Zoram, the one your folks pressed and brought outta Jerusalem.
And listen, I’m a bold Lamanite; this war’s been goin’ on to right them wrongs and to keep hold of our rights to the government; and now I’m closin' this letter to Moroni.
