Well, when Moroni got that letter, it just boiled his blood somethin’ fierce, ‘cause he knew good an’ well that Ammoron was fully aware of his sneaky ways; shoot, he realized that Ammoron knew this whole war thing wasn’t justified ‘gainst the Nephites.
And he declared, “Listen here, I ain't swappin' prisoners with Ammoron unless he backs off his plans, like I said in my letter; I won’t give him no more power than what he already has.”
“Now, I know where them Lamanite guards are keepin’ my folks they caught; and since Ammoron ain't respondin’ to my letter, well, I’m gonna make sure I’m bringin’ the heat ‘til they beg for peace.”
And it wasn't long after Moroni said that, he sent his men out searchin’ for someone who belonged to the Lamanite family tree.
Sure enough, they found one fella named Laman, who happened to be a servant of that poor king that Amalickiah had knocked off.
So Moroni sent Laman and a few of his buddies off toward the guards who were watchin’ over them Nephites.
Now them Nephites were holed up in the city of Gid; so Moroni picked Laman and had a handful of men tag along with him.
Evenin’ rolled around, and Laman went up to them guards watchin' the Nephites, and lo and behold, they saw him comin’ and gave him a big ol’ shout; but he told ‘em, “Don’t you worry now; I’m a Lamanite. We made our getaway from the Nephites while they was snoozin’, and we brought some of their wine with us.”
When the Lamanites heard him sayin’ that, they were hollerin’ with joy; they said, “Hand us some of that wine so we can wet our whistles; we’re mighty glad you brought some along ‘cause we’s plum tuckered out.”
But Laman told 'em, “Let’s hold back on the wine ‘til we can go give them Nephites a good tussle.” Well, that just made ‘em crave it all the more.
For they declared, “We’re wore out, so let’s drink up this wine; we’ll get more for rations later to bolster our strength for fightin’ those Nephites.”
And Laman just shrugged and said, “Y’all do what you wanna do.”
Next thing ya know, they were downin' that wine like it was sweet tea; it tasted real good, so they kept at it, and boy, oh boy, it was strong stuff they had prepped.
And wouldn’t ya know, they drank ‘til they was livin’ it up, and soon enough, they were all flat-out drunk.
Now when Laman and his crew saw that the guards was all passed out, they buzzed back to Moroni and told him ever'thin’ that went down.
And this was all part of Moroni’s plan. He had his men ready to roll with their weapons and headed to the city of Gid while them Lamanites was lost in their drunken stupor, and he slipped some weapons over to the prisoners, so they was all strapped up;
Even the women and them little young’uns who could wield a weapon got armed up, all done in absolute hush-hush.
But if them Lamanites had woken up, shoot, they was so drunk, them Nephites could've wiped ‘em out.
But let me tell ya, Moroni wasn’t lookin’ for that; he didn’t take no pleasure in spillin’ blood, but instead wanted to save his people from bein’ wiped out; so, out of fairness, he refused to attack the Lamanites while they was inebriated.
But shoot, he got what he wanted; he armed those Nephite prisoners sittin’ inside them city walls, givin’ ‘em the chance to take back what was theirs.
Then he told his men to step back a bit and circle ‘round ‘em Lamanite folks.
Now just picture this: it all went down at nighttime, so when them Lamanites finally woke up in the mornin’, they saw they was surrounded by Nephites on the outside, and their prisoners was all armed up on the inside.
And just like that, the Lamanites realized the Nephites had the upper hand; so, they figured it wouldn’t be smart to fight, which led their top brass to toss down their weapons and beg for mercy.
Now that was exactly what Moroni wanted. He took ‘em as prisoners of war, seized the city, and made sure all them Nephite prisoners got set free, joinin’ Moroni’s army and givin’ it a real boost.
Then he had those Lamanites he caught start workin’ on beefin’ up the fortifications around Gid.
And after he got that city all fortified just how he wanted it, he sent his prisoners off to Bountiful, makin’ sure that place was guarded real tight.
Even with all them Lamanite schemes goin' on, they held on tight to all them prisoners they snatched up, makin’ sure to keep their ground and the advantage they took back.
And next thing ya know, the Nephites were back in the swing of things, claimin’ their rights and freedoms.
Them Lamanites tried time and again to sneak ‘round ‘em at night, but they ended up losin’ a whole bunch of prisoners in the process.
And they kept tryin’ to serve their wine to the Nephites to knock 'em outta commission, hopin’ to poison ‘em or make 'em drunk.
But hear this, the Nephites weren’t no dummies; they remembered their Lord during these tough times. They wasn’t gonna fall for their traps; no sir, they wouldn’t touch that wine unless they first shared it with some of the Lamanite prisoners.
So they were real careful not to let any poison slip into their midst, ‘cause if it could knock out a Lamanite, it’d do the same to a Nephite; and so they were takin’ stock of all their drinks.
Then Moroni figured it was high time to gear up for an offensive on the city of Morianton; he’d noticed that the Lamanites had been makin’ that place a fort like nobody’s business with all their work.
And they was constantly packin’ in new troops and fresh supplies into that city.
And that’s how the twenty-ninth year of the judges over the Nephites wrapped up, y’all.
