Well now, it was right at the start of the thirtieth year of them judges bein' in charge, and on the second day of the first month, Moroni got him a letter from Helaman about how folks were doin' over yonder.
And here’s what he had to say: My dear ol' brother Moroni, both in the Lord and in the hard times of our fightin'; listen here, my cherished brother, I got some things to share about our battle out this way.
Well now, two thousand of them young'uns from those fellas Ammon brought down outta Nephi—y'all know these boys are kin to Laman, who was the firstborn of our dad Lehi;
Ain't no need for me to go on about their stories or their lack of faith, 'cause you already know all that—
So it’s just fine to tell ya that two thousand of these young bucks picked up their weapons, wishin' I'd lead 'em; we came out to protect our land.
And you know 'bout the promise their daddies made, sayin' they wouldn't lift their guns against their own kin to spill blood.
But in the twenty-sixth year, when they saw how much we was sufferin’ for 'em, they was thinkin' 'bout breakin' that promise and pickin' up their guns to help us out.
But I wasn't gonna let 'em break that promise they made, thinkin' God’d give us strength so we wouldn’t suffer too much for stickin' to the word they’d given.
But lemme tell ya, here’s somethin' that brings us a heap of joy. In the twenty-sixth year, I, Helaman, headed up them two thousand young'uns straight to the city of Judea, to lend a hand to Antipus, the one you put in charge of that part of the land.
And I joined my two thousand sons (and they sure deserve to be called that) to Antipus's army, which made him mighty happy; ‘cause let me tell ya, his crew was gettin’ whittled down by the Lamanites, who had taken out a whole bunch of our men, and we had the blues over it.
But still, we can take comfort that they died fightin' for their homeland and their God, bless 'em, they’re in a better place.
And them Lamanites also captured a whole bunch of our top brass, and they ain't spared nobody else alive. We figure they’re sittin’ in Nephi right now, unless they done got themselves killed.
Now listen here, these are the towns the Lamanites claimed after spillin' so much of our brave folks' blood:
The land of Manti, or the city of Manti, Zeezrom, Cumeni, and Antiparah too.
And these are the towns they had when I got to Judea; I found Antipus and his men bustin' their humps to fortify the city.
Yes indeed, they was feelin' beat down, both in body and spirit, ‘cause they fought hard all day and worked all night tryin' to protect their towns, and they was sufferin’ something fierce.
And they was dead set on winnin’ or goin’ down swingin’; so you can imagine that the little bunch I brought with me, my sons and all, gave 'em a mighty boost of hope and some happiness.
Well, when the Lamanites caught wind that Antipus had beefed up his army, they got the message from Ammoron to keep their distance from the city of Judea, us too, no fightin’ here.
And the Lord was favorin' us; had they come at us when we was weak, they mighta wiped out our little band; but we were spared.
Ammoron told 'em to hold onto them towns they snatched up. And that wrapped up the twenty-sixth year. At the start of the twenty-seventh year, we got ourselves and our city all set for defendin’.
Now we was hopin’ the Lamanites would make a move towards us; we didn’t wanna be the ones attackin' 'em in their strongholds.
So we kept some spies lurkin’ around, keepin’ an eye on them Lamanites, makin' sure they didn’t sneak by us to attack our other towns up north.
‘Cause we knew them towns wasn’t strong enough to take 'em on; so if they decided to go 'round us, we wanted to surprise ’em from the back while we met ‘em head-on. We figgered we could take 'em, but you know what? We got let down on that front.
They didn’t dare march by us with their whole army, nor even with part of it, ‘cause they was worried they might end up too weak and get taken down themselves.
They didn’t even try to hit the city of Zarahemla; nor would they cross the head of Sidon over to Nephihah.
And so with their forces, they was mighty set on hangin’ onto the towns they’d grabbed.
In the second month of that year, we got a whole mess of supplies from the daddies of my two thousand boys.
And on top of that, two thousand fellas showed up from Zarahemla to help us out. So we was sittin’ pretty with ten thousand men and all the grub we needed for them and their families too.
And the Lamanites, seein' us growin’ the numbers and supplies showin' up, started gettin’ jumpy, thinkin' they oughta do somethin’ to stop our flow of goods and muscle.
Now when we realized the Lamanites was gettin’ fidgety like that, we wanted to put a plan into action; so Antipus told me to take my young'uns and march over to a nearby town, makin' it seem like we was carryin' supplies to somewhere else.
And we was to make our way near Antiparah, pretending we was headin' to a place down by the seaside.
So off we went, actin’ like we was transportin' our supplies over to that town.
Antipus sent part of his boys out too, lettin' the rest hold down the fort at the city. He didn’t head out till I took my little crew near Antiparah.
Now in that city of Antiparah was the mightiest part of the Lamanites; yeah, they was the biggest bunch.
Soon as their scouts caught wind of things, they came out with their army ready for us.
We took off runnin’ from ‘em, headin’ north. And we led their strongest army away from our people;
And we took 'em a good distance, so much so that when they saw Antipus comin’ after ‘em, they didn’t veer left or right but kept straight on comin' for us; we reckon they wanted to finish us off before Antipus could catch up and surround 'em.
But Antipus, seein' our trouble, hurried his troops up. But it was nightfall when he got movin'; he didn’t catch up to us, and we didn’t catch 'em; so we set up camp for the night.
Then, before the sun started risin', those Lamanites was right on our tail again. We just didn’t have the strength to stand up to ‘em; I wasn’t gonna let my little ones fall into their hands, so we just kept on movin’, makin' our way into the wild.
They didn’t dare turn left or right neither, scared they’d end up surrounded; and I wasn’t about to do the same, so we kept on runnin’ straight ahead, not wantin’ to get caught up ourselves and end up dead while they skedaddled away; and so we spent the whole day runnin’ through the wilderness until dark.
And when morning light broke, we saw the Lamanites right there on our heels, and we took off runnin’ again.
But they didn’t chase us far before they stopped; it was the mornin’ of the third day in the seventh month.
Now, whether Antipus caught up with 'em, we couldn't rightly say, but I told my men: Alright now, we ain't sure if they stopped so we could come at 'em and get caught in a trap;
So what do ya say, my boys, you wanna take ‘em on in a fight?
And now, I tell ya, my dear brother Moroni, I ain't never seen such guts, not in any of the Nephites.
‘Cause when I called 'em my sons (and they was all young bucks), they said to me: Father, our God’s with us, He ain't gonna let us fall; let’s go now; we ain't lookin’ to kill our brothers, just want 'em to leave us be; so let’s move before they overwhelm Antipus’s army.
Now they ain't never fought before, yet they had no fear of death; they were thinkin’ more about their folks' freedom than their own lives; yeah, their mamas taught 'em that if they didn’t doubt, God would save ‘em.
And they told me what their mamas said: We ain’t doubtin’ our mamas knew what’s up.
Then I turned around and took my two thousand back against them Lamanites who was chasin’ us. And lo and behold, the armies of Antipus had caught up with 'em, and a fierce fight was on.
Antipus’s army was wearin' down, ‘cause they done marched so far in such a short time, they was fixin’ to end up in the hands of them Lamanites; had I not returned with my two thousand, they mighta gotten their way.
Antipus had fell to the sword, and many of his leaders, ‘cause they was too tired from their quick march—so Antipus’s men, bein’ all mixed up from losin’ their leaders, started givin’ ground to them Lamanites.
Then them Lamanites picked up steam, and started chasin’ hard, but just then I rolled in from behind with my two thousand, and we started takin’ 'em out left and right, so much so that the whole Lamanite army stopped and turned tail at us.
Now when Antipus’s people saw the Lamanites backin' off, they rallied their men and came at the Lamanites from behind.
And lo and behold, we, the Nephites, along with Antipus’s folks and my two thousand, surrounded them Lamanites and took 'em down; yeah, forced 'em to give up their weapons and themselves as prisoners.
And it came to pass that when they surrendered, I made sure to count up them young’uns who fought with me, 'cause I was worried some mighta been lost in the fray.
But to my absolute joy, not a single soul of 'em had fallen; nope, they fought like they had the strength of God Himself; ain't never known men to fight with such heavenly strength; and with such might did they come down on them Lamanites, they was so scared, them Lamanites turned around and gave up.
And since we didn’t have a proper place to keep our prisoners safe from the Lamanite army, we sent ‘em off to the land of Zarahemla, along with some guys who ain’t been slain from Antipus; then I took the rest and put 'em with my young Ammonites, and we made our way back to the city of Judea.
