Well, it sure did happen that I got me a letter from King Ammoron, sayin' if I handed over them prisoners of war we caught, then he'd give us the city of Antiparah.
But I shot back a letter to the king, lettin' him know that we figured our folks were strong enough to take Antiparah with our own might; and handin' over them prisoners just ain't smart, so we’d only do a trade if it came down to it.
Ammoron went on to refuse my letter, 'cause he didn't wanna swap prisoners. So, we started makin’ plans to head on down to Antiparah.
But the townsfolk of Antiparah packed up and skedaddled to their other towns, tryin’ to beef 'em up; and just like that, Antiparah fell right into our hands.
And that wraps up the twenty-eighth year of the judges’ reign.
Then, come the start of the twenty-ninth year, we got ourselves some grub and a whole mess of new soldiers from Zarahemla and the surroundin' lands, addin' up to six thousand men, plus sixty good ol' Ammonite boys who came to lend a hand to my little band of two thousand. And let me tell ya, we was feelin’ strong, and boy did we have plenty of supplies.
Turns out we wanted to go head to head with the army watchin’ over the city of Cumeni.
Now, lemme tell ya, we didn’t waste no time gettin’ what we wanted; with a piece of our strong crew, we snuck up on Cumeni at night, just a bit before they were fixin' to get their supply drop.
Well, we set up camp around that city for a heap of nights; but we was sleepin’ on our swords and takin’ turns keepin’ watch, so them Lamanites couldn’t sneak up and take us out in the dead of night, and they sure did try. But every time they did, they ended up spillin’ their own blood.
Finally, their food supplies rolled in, and they were just about to slip into the town under cover of night. But we weren’t no Lamanites, we were Nephites; so we snagged both them and their provisions.
Even with the Lamanites bein' cut off like that, they still wanted to hold onto that town; so it made sense for us to haul those provisions off to Judea and send our prisoners on down to Zarahemla.
Not long after that, the Lamanites started losin’ all hope, and they went and handed the town over to us; and just like that, we achieved what we set out to do, takin' the city of Cumeni.
But lemme tell ya, we had so many prisoners that even with all our numbers, we had to use every bit of our strength to keep ‘em in line or deal with ‘em some other way.
You see, they kept tryin’ to break out in droves and fightin’ with rocks, clubs, or whatever they could get their hands on, and we ended up takin' out over two thousand of ‘em after they gave themselves up.
So it made sense that we had to either finish 'em off or guard their sorry selves all the way down to Zarahemla; besides, we didn’t have enough provisions just for our own folks, what with all we’d taken from the Lamanites.
So, in those tricky times, decidin’ what to do with them prisoners became a real serious thing; still, we decided to send ‘em down to Zarahemla and picked out some of our men to watch over ‘em on that journey.
But just the next day, they came back. And let me tell ya, we didn’t even ask ‘em about the prisoners; the Lamanites were right on us, and they made it back just in time to save our hides. 'Cause, see, Ammoron sent a fresh batch of supplies and a whole new army to back ‘em up.
Those fellas who we sent down with the prisoners showed up just in time to stop the Lamanites as they were tryin’ to stomp us flat.
But my little group of two thousand sixty went at it like wildcats; yeah, they stood their ground against the Lamanites, dishin’ out death to all who came at ‘em.
And while the rest of our crew was about to give a bit, those two thousand and sixty held on tight and didn’t flinch none.
And you bet they obeyed every command like it was their last breath; and according to their faith, it was done for ‘em, and I remembered what they said their mommas taught ‘em.
Now look here, it was these young’uns of mine and the ones we picked to transport the prisoners that brought us this victory; they turned the Lamanites tail tucking back to the city of Manti.
And we held onto Cumeni, not all of us sliced up by the sword; though I reckon we did take some serious losses.
After the Lamanites took off, I ordered my wounded men be pulled from amongst the dead and got them patched up.
Turns out, two hundred of my two thousand sixty fainted from loss of blood; but, thank the good Lord, to our astonishment and joy, not a single one of them perished; and not one of ‘em went without a good number of wounds, either.
Now, their livin' was a true wonder to our whole army, especially since a thousand of our brothers didn’t make it. We rightly thanked the miraculous power of God, 'cause of their mighty faith in what they’d been taught—that there’s a just God out there, and if ya don’t doubt, He'll see ya through.
This is the faith of those I been talkin’ about; they’re young, their minds are set, and they just keep trustin’ in God.
So after we took care of our wounded and buried our dead—including the dead Lamanites, which was a whole heap—we asked Gid ‘bout them prisoners who started headin’ to Zarahemla.
Gid was the head captain of the group keepin’ an eye on ‘em as they made their way down.
Now these are the words Gid shared with me: We set out to head down to Zarahemla with our prisoners, and we ran into the spies from our armies who were watchin’ over the Lamanite camp.
They called out to us, shoutin’—Look out, the Lamanite armies are marchin’ right towards Cumeni; they’re fixin’ to pounce on our folks and wipe ‘em out.
Well, our prisoners caught wind of their shoutin’, which got ‘em all riled up; next thing ya know, they was risin’ up in rebellion against us.
And because they went and rebelled, we had no choice but to let our swords do the talkin’. They ran right at our swords, and most of ‘em ended up bite the dust; the ones that didn’t broke free and scampered off.
Once they fled and we couldn't catch ‘em, we picked up the pace to Cumeni; and, bless my soul, we made it in time to help our folks save the city.
And just like that, we were delivered again from our enemies. Blessed be the name of our God; He’s the one who set us free; yeah, He done this great thing for us.
Now when I, Helaman, heard these words from Gid, I was filled to the brim with joy 'bout the goodness of God for keepin’ us safe so we didn’t all buy the farm; and I trust those souls lost have found their peace with their God.
