Well now, listen up, it all started when we had ourselves a mind to grab that city of Manti. Problem was, our little crew just couldn’t wrangle them folks outta there. They had a real memory on 'em about all the things we’d done before, so they weren’t fixin’ to leave their safe spots.
They outnumbered us by a whole heap, and we weren’t about to charge on in to their strongholds. 
So, we figured it’d be smarter to keep our men in the parts we’d already claimed back, waitin' till we could get some extra muscle from Zarahemla, along with a fresh batch of food.
Well, I sent a message to the big boss of our land, lettin’ him in on what was goin’ on with our people. We waited to get our supplies and reinforcements from Zarahemla.
But, shoot, that didn’t help us much at all; the Lamanites were just gettin' stronger by the day, stockin’ up on supplies too, and that was just our luck.
They'd charge out at us from time to time, tryin’ to come up with a plan to take us out, but we couldn’t meet 'em in battle ‘cause they were too busy hightailin' it back to their strongholds.
We stuck it out in them tough times for months, gettin' more desperate for food by the minute.
Then, lo and behold, we finally got some grub, guarded by two thousand of our folks, and that was all the back-up we had to keep our heads above water ‘gainst a whole mess of enemies.
Now, we didn’t rightly know why we weren’t gettin’ more support, and that got us all worried, thinkin' maybe God was gonna rain down judgment on us, bringin’ us to ruin.
So, we laid it all bare to God in prayer, askin’ Him to give us strength and deliver us from those traitorous hands, and to help us keep hold of our towns and lands for the sake of our people.
And wouldn’t you know it, the Lord came to us, whisperin’ sweet peace to our troubled hearts, fillin’ us up with faith and makin’ us hopeful for rescue.
With what little force we had left, we bravely set our sights on conquerin’ our foes and holdin’ on to our lands, our families, and fightin' for our freedom.
So, we gathered all our strength and charged on in against the Lamanites holdin’ down the city of Manti, pitchin’ our tents right by the wilderness, close to the city.
Now, come the next day, the Lamanites caught sight of us near the borders and sent out some spies to figure out how many of us there were and what our strength looked like.
And when they saw we weren’t too strong, fearin’ we might cut ‘em off from help if they didn’t step out and engage in battle, thinkin’ they could wipe us out with their big army, they began makin’ their own preparations to face us.
Once we saw them gearin’ up to come after us, I told Gid to take a small bunch and sneak off into the wilderness, just like Teomner and another small crew doin’ the same.
Gid and his crew were tucked away on one side, and the others on the other; and there I stood with the rest of my men, right where we first set up camp, waitin’ for the Lamanites to come on out.
Sure enough, the Lamanites came rollin’ out with their big ol' army, and just as they were fixin’ to come down on us, I told my folks to pull back into the wilderness.
They chased after us quick as a flash, real keen on catchin' us to take us out; they followed us into the wilderness, right between Gid and Teomner, who managed to stay hidden from 'em.
Then, when the coast was clear and the Lamanites passed by, Gid and Teomner popped up from their hidey holes and took care of the spies, makin’ sure they didn’t make it back to city.
Once they dealt with those spies, they charged right over to the city and took out the guards who were watchin’ the place, takin’ control of it real quick.
Now, this worked 'cause the Lamanites let their whole army, except for a few guards, wander off into the wilderness.
So thanks to Gid and Teomner, we had ourselves a solid hold on their strongholds, after trippin’ through the wilderness towards Zarahemla.
When the Lamanites caught wind that we was headin’ towards Zarahemla, they got mighty scared, thinkin’ there must be some scheme to lead ‘em to their doom, and they skedaddled back into the wilderness, retracin’ their steps.
And ‘fore long, it was night and they set up camp, thinkin’ the Nephites were too tired from marchin'. They figured they had run us off good, so they weren’t worried ‘bout Manti anymore.
Later that night, I made sure my men didn’t shut their eyes but kept movin' towards Manti, takin’ a different route so the Lamanites wouldn’t catch wind of us.
And come the next day, we had outmaneuvered the Lamanites and ended up sittin’ pretty before ‘em at the city of Manti.
And so, by this clever plan, we took over the city of Manti without spillin' any blood.
But, when the Lamanite armies got near and saw we were ready for ‘em, they were shocked and filled with fear, and they took off runnin’ into the wilderness.
Sure enough, the Lamanite armies skedaddled outta that whole part of the land, but they took a whole mess of women and children with 'em.
The cities those Lamanites had snatched up are all ours again now, and our folks, including the women and children, are makin' their way back home, all ‘cept for those poor souls who got captured and taken away.
But we do have a small army, and it ain’t easy to cover all them cities and hold onto what we got.
But we’re trustin’ in our God who’s given us victory over them lands, so we’ve managed to get back what rightfully belongs to us.
Now, we don’t rightly understand why the government ain’t sendin’ more help our way; even them men who showed up don’t know why we ain’t seen more support.
We just don’t know if we didn’t have no success out there and they moved the troops elsewhere; if that’s the case, we ain’t complainin’.
And if that ain’t it, well, we start to worry that there’s some sort of fuss in the government, and they ain’t sending more folks to help us, ‘cause we know there’s more of ‘em than what they’ve sent our way.
But it don’t matter none—we’re trusting God’s gonna save us, even with our small forces, and deliver us from these pesky enemies.
Now, it’s the end of the twenty-ninth year, and we’re holdin’ onto our lands, while the Lamanites have hightailed it back to Nephi.
And them sons of the people of Ammon I’ve been braggin’ on? They’re with me in Manti, and the Lord’s been good to ‘em, keepin’ 'em safe and sound, ‘cause not a single one’s been lost to the sword.
But they’ve been through the wringer, yeah, and they’ve got their fair share of wounds; but they’re stayin' strong in that freedom God gave 'em, and they’re real good about rememberin’ the Lord every single day; they stickin' to keepin' His laws, His judgments, and His commandments, and they got a strong faith in the promises of what’s yet to come.
And now, my dear brother Moroni, I pray the Lord our God, who’s redeemed us and set us free, keeps you in His sights; and may He bless our people so that you can snag back everything the Lamanites took from us that we need to survive. And that’s all I gotta say. Yours truly, Helaman, son of Alma.
