Well, it happened that I penned another letter to the governor of our fair land, Pahoran, and here’s what I had to say, listen up: Look, I’m sendin’ this here letter straight to Pahoran, over in Zarahemla, who’s supposed to be the chief judge and governor of this whole territory, along with all y’all folks pickin’ to run this war business.
Now lemme tell ya somethin’ important—y’all know good and well you been put in charge to round up men, get 'em armed with swords, fancy knives, and all kinds of war gear, and send ‘em off to take on the Lamanites wherever they might see fit to traipse into our land.
And I gotta say it’s been tough on me and my crew, not to mention Helaman and his boys—ya see, we’ve been sufferin’ somethin’ fierce; yeah, we ‘bout starved, been thirstier than a dog on a hot day, and just plain wore out, feelin’ all kinds of agony.
But reckon if that was all we were dealin’ with, we wouldn’t be grumblin’ none.
But shoot, the bloodshed has been mighty brutal among our folks; I mean thousands hittin’ the dirt, and it sure could've been different if y’all had just lent our armies some decent help. Looks like y’all been ignorin’ us real good.
So now, we’re hopin’ to understand why y’all been so neglectful; we’re wantin’ to figure out why y’all don't seem to give a hoot.
You really think you can just sit up there on your high horses and not care while the bad guys are bringin’ death right ‘round ya? They’re out there killin’ thousands of the good folks who look to you for protection—
Yeah, those same folks who’ve placed their trust in you, that you might’ve sent some help their way, strengthened ‘em up, and kept ‘em from dyin’ by the sword.
But hold up, that ain’t all—y’all been holdin’ back the grub from ‘em too, so much so that plenty have fought and lost their lives tryin’ to take care of this people, even while they was ‘bout to starve, all thanks to your downright neglect.
And now, my dear brethren—y’all really oughta be loved; fact is, you should’ve been workin’ a whole lot harder for the welfare and freedom of these folks; look at what’s happened, your neglect’s gonna weigh heavy on your heads for all the blood that’s spilled; God’s heard their cries and knows their sufferings—
Do you think you can lounge around on your thrones, thinkin’ that God’s goodness means you can just sit there and He’ll do all the work? If that’s what you reckon, you’re foolin’ yourselves.
You actually believe that just ‘cause so many of your brothers have faced the sword, it’s ‘cause they were bad folks? Listen here, if you think that, you’re real far off; I’m tellin’ ya, plenty good folks have fallen, and that’s on you—
See, the Lord lets the righteous get slain so that justice can catch up with the wicked; so don’t go thinkin’ the good ones are lost ‘cause they fall; they’re just headin’ to rest with the Lord their God.
And now, I’m tellin’ ya, I’m mighty scared that God’s gonna unleash His judgment on this people for their laziness, yeah, the laziness of our leaders, and their awful neglect towards their own, especially those who been slain.
If it hadn’t been for all the wickedness at the top, we could’ve kicked the enemy right outta here without them gainin’ a lick of power over us.
Yeah, if it weren’t for the fights breakin’ out among us; and if it weren’t for them king-men who made such a mess of things; while we was busy fightin’ each other, if we had pooled our strength like we oughta done; and if them king-men had been true to our cause, come together with us, and stood against our enemies instead of liftin’ their swords against their own, there wouldn’t be the heavy bloodshed we’re seein’; you see, if we’d fought ‘em with the Lord’s strength, we could’ve sent ‘em runnin’, just like He promised.
But here we are; the Lamanites are comin’ at us, takin’ our land and killin’ our folks, yup, even our women and children, takin’ ‘em away, makin’ ‘em suffer in all kinds of ways; all ‘cause of the wickedness of them power-hungry king-men.
But why should I go on ‘bout this? We’re not sure if y’all’re out there lookin’ for power too. Could be you might as well be traitors to your own land.
Or is it that y’all just turned a blind eye to us, sittin’ pretty in the heart of our country, feelin’ all safe, forgettin’ to send us food and folks to help our armies?
Y’all forgettin’ God’s commandments? Y’all forgotten our daddies’ captivity? You really forgot how many times we’ve been saved right outta the hands of our enemies?
Or do you honestly think the Lord’s still gonna save us while you just sit there and don’t use the means He’s laid out for us?
Yup, you reckon you can just sit still while you’ve got thousands, even tens of thousands, sittin' idle, while all around us folks are fallin’ by the sword, bleedin’ and hurtin’?
Do you think God’s gonna see you as innocent while you’re sittin’ by watchin’ it all go down? I tell ya, no way. Now, don’t ya forget God says the inside has gotta be cleaned up first, then the outside gets taken care of too.
And now, unless you get off your duff and start makin’ amends for what you’ve done, and send us food and men to support Helaman, who’s tryin’ to hold on to what bits of land we got back, we shouldn’t even bother with the Lamanites ‘til we clean up our own house, even the head of our government.
And unless you take this letter to heart, and come show me some real spirit of freedom, and work to shore up our armies and feed ‘em, I reckon I’ll leave some of my good folks here to guard this patch of land, and I’ll lean on God’s strength to make sure nothin’ else can come against ‘em—
And that’s all ‘cause of their rock-solid faith, and their patience through tough times—
And I’ll be comin’ to you; and if there’s anybody among ya with even a hint of desire for freedom, I’m tellin’ ya now, I’m gonna stir up some trouble until all the power-hungry folks are wiped out.
Yup, I ain’t scared of your power or your authority, but I am mighty scared of my God; I’ve got to defend this land ‘cause He’s told me to, and what you’ve done wrong is why we’ve lost so much.
Look, it’s time, the time’s now to wake up; if y’all don’t jump into action and defend your land and your little ones, that sword of justice is hangin’ right over ya; it’s gonna come fallin’ down and take ya out.
I’m here waitin’ for some help from you all; and if you don’t step up to help us out, I’m comin’ to you in Zarahemla, and I’m going to smite ya with the sword, so you can’t stop us in our pursuit of freedom.
‘Cause the Lord ain’t gonna let you live and thrive in your sins while He’s tryin’ to protect His righteous people.
Do you really think the Lord’s gonna look the other way and come down on the Lamanites, when it’s their family traditions causin’ all this hatred, and it’s been made worse by those who’ve turned against us, while your wrongs stem from your love of glory and all the flashy things in the world?
You know you’re breakin’ God’s laws, just throwin' ‘em down like nothin’. Look, the Lord’s told me: If those you’ve appointed don't fix their wrongs, you’re gonna find yourselves in battle against them.
And now, listen here, I, Moroni, got no choice but to follow what I promised to God; so I’m hopin’ y’all will listen up, do what’s right, and get food and men to me quick-like, and to Helaman too.
And lemme tell ya, if you don’t hop to it, I’m comin’ your way in a hurry; God ain’t gonna let us starve; He’ll find a way to take your food, even if it means wagin’ war. Now y’all better fulfill the word of God.
Just so ya know, I’m Moroni, your main captain. I ain’t lookin’ for power, but to bring it down. I ain’t in it for the world’s honor, but for the glory of my God, and for the freedom and well-bein’ of my country. And that’s how I’m wrapping up this here letter.
