Well, lemme tell ya what happened after Moroni shot a letter off to the main boss man, Pahoran, the chief governor. Here’s what he got back:
I, Pahoran, the head honcho ‘round these parts, am a-sendin’ this here message to you, Moroni, who’s runnin’ the show over the army. Now listen up, Moroni, I ain't too happy ‘bout all the hard times you’re facin’, and it just tugs at my heartstrings somethin’ fierce.
But let me tell ya, there are folks out there who are actually happy ‘bout your troubles, and they’ve decided to rise up against me and my good peeps who are just tryin’ to keep it free, and let me tell ya, they’re a mighty big crowd.
It’s them rascals tryin’ to take my judgment-seat that’s caused all this mess; they’ve been blowin’ smoke and flatterin’ folks, leadin’ many good people astray, which is sure gonna hurt us bad; they’ve even kept our supplies from reachin’ ya and scared off our free folks from gettin' to you.
They’ve pushed me right outta my own place, and I’ve hightailed it to Gideon with however many good men I could gather.
And listen here, I’ve sent out a shout across this part of the land, and folks are bein’ drawn to us every day, ready to grab their guns and stand up for their home and freedom, lookin’ to settle the score for what’s been done to us.
They’re comin’ our way in numbers, and those rebel folks think they can just thumb their nose at us; they’re downright scared of us and ain’t got the guts to face us in a fight.
Them king-men have taken over Zarahemla; they got themselves a king and he’s shootin’ letters off to the Lamanite king, makin’ deals to support that city. This fella thinks keepin’ Zarahemla will help the Lamanites take the rest of the land, and that he’ll be sittin’ pretty as king when they conquer us.
Now, I gotta say, you gave me a little bit of a hard time in your letter, but that ain't got me riled up; I’m just happy to see your heart’s in the right place. Pahoran here ain’t lookin’ for no power, just wantin’ to hold onto my seat so I can keep my folks’ rights and freedom safe. My spirit is firm in that freedom God’s given us.
And now, bless your heart, we’re ready to fight against all this wickedness, even if it comes down to spillin’ blood. We sure wouldn’t want to hurt them Lamanites if they just stayed put in their own neck of the woods.
We wouldn’t take out our own kin if they’d just keep their heads down and not start a ruckus against us.
We’d put on the ol’ yoke of bondage if God’s justice called for it, or if He told us to do it.
But let me be clear, He ain’t tellin’ us to bow down to our enemies; He’s sayin’ we should trust Him, and He’ll come through for us.
So, my dear brother Moroni, let’s stand up against this evil, and for all the trouble we can’t talk down—like rebellions and squabbles—let’s take up our swords to hold onto our freedom, revelin’ in the good ol’ privilege of our church and fightin’ for our Redeemer and our God.
So come on over here quick-like with a few of your good ol’ boys, and leave the rest to Lehi and Teancum; let ’em know they got the green light to handle the fightin’ wherever they are, goin’ with God’s Spirit—the spirit of freedom lingerin’ in them.
I’ve sent a couple of supplies their way, just to keep ‘em from starvin’ while you make your way over here.
Gather up whatever force you can, and let’s skedaddle against those dissenters, leanin’ on the strength of our God ‘cause we’re full of faith.
We’ll take back Zarahemla so we can stock up on more grub to send to Lehi and Teancum; yeah, we’ll head out against ‘em with the Lord’s might and put a stop to this mess once and for all.
And now, Moroni, I’m right happy to get your letter ‘cause I was gettin’ a bit anxious ‘bout what we oughta do—whether it’d be fair to go after our own brothers.
But you let it be known, unless they mend their ways, the Lord’s ordered you to go after ‘em.
Make sure to strengthen Lehi and Teancum in the Lord; tell ‘em not to fret, ‘cause God’s gonna save ‘em, and everyone who stands firm in that sweet liberty He’s given us. And that's all she wrote for now, my dear brother Moroni.
