Well now, it turns out when Moroni got that letter, his heart just swelled with courage and he was happier than a lark, 'cause he knew Pahoran was as loyal as they come, not a traitor like some folks.
But Lord, he sure did grieve 'bout all them folks who’d run Pahoran outta his seat o' judgment, and them rebels who turned their backs on their country and their God too.
So, Moroni rounded up a handful of good ol' boys, just like Pahoran asked, and handed Lehi and Teancum the reins for the rest of the crew, then he marched off toward Gideon, just like a dadgum soldier.
Everywhere he went, he waved that flag of freedom high, gatherin' every little backwoodsman he could find in his great march to Gideon.
Next thing ya know, thousands were showin' up to pick up their swords and fight for their freedom, makin' sure they didn’t end up shackled like some sad sack.
So there Moroni was, roundin' up every man he could find on the road, finally settlin' down in Gideon; once he teamed up with Pahoran, they were tougher than a two-headed dollar bill, even more than them punks followin' Pachus, who had run the good folks outta Zarahemla and taken over the place.
Then, wouldn't ya know, Moroni and Pahoran rode into Zarahemla, armies in tow, lookin’ to tussle with Pachus and his crew, which led to quite the dust-up.
Pachus ended up six feet under, and his men were caught red-handed, and Pahoran got his old judge's seat back, clearer than a Georgia sky.
So, Pachus and his gang went through the ropes of trial, 'cause that’s how things work, and all them king-men who'd been locked up got the same fate; if they weren’t about to help defend their country, then they faced the hangman’s noose.
That’s how it became necessary-like for those laws to stick around, keepin' the peace on the home front; and if anyone was found denyin' their freedoms, well, they didn’t have much time left here, that’s for sure.
Well, that was the end of the thirtieth year with them judges over Nephi, and Moroni and Pahoran had brought peace back to Zarahemla, dealin' death to those who weren’t true blue to the cause of freedom.
Now when the thirty-first year rolled ‘round for them judges, Moroni wasted no time gettin' provisions sent out, and roundin' up a good ol' army of six thousand to help Helaman hold down the fort.
And he also sent another bunch of six thousand, loaded with grub, to back up Lehi and Teancum, all to beef up the defenses ‘gainst the Lamanites.
So, Moroni and Pahoran left a big ol' group in Zarahemla and set out with a hefty crew towards Nephihah, all set on givin' the Lamanites a good kickin' in that town.
As they marched on, they took down a good number of Lamanites, mowin’ 'em down and snaggin’ their supplies and weapons too.
After that little skirmish, they made those Lamanites swear they wouldn’t be pickin' up arms against the Nephites no more.
Once they got that promise, they sent ‘em off to live with the good folks of Ammon, 'bout four thousand strong who made it through unscathed.
After givin' ‘em the boot, they kept headin' to Nephihah, settlin' down their tents in the plains not too far from the city.
Moroni really wanted those Lamanites to come out and throw down on him in the open, but they knew damn well how brave he and his boys were and how many they had, so they didn’t wanna dance that dance just yet.
Come nightfall, Moroni snuck out in the dark like a cat, climbin' up on the wall to see where the Lamanites were camped out.
They were snoozin’ all cozy-like on the east side by the entrance. Moroni came back to his group and told ‘em they needed to make some ropes and ladders quick-like, to drop down into the inner part of the wall.
So, Moroni led his men up on top of that wall and let themselves down into the city from the west side where them Lamanites weren’t hangin' out.
They snuck into the city all sneaky-like by night, and when morning broke, they found themselves snug inside the walls.
When the Lamanites woke up and saw Moroni's crew sittin' in their backyard, they were scared silly and took off runnin'.
Well, once Moroni noticed they were skedaddlin', he told his men to hustle out there, take down as many as possible, and round up the rest, the ones who high-tailed it going back to Moroni's land by the coast.
And just like that, Moroni and Pahoran took Nephihah without losin’ a single soul, not to mention many Lamanites bite the dust.
Now, a good number of captured Lamanites wanted to team up with the Ammon folks and be free again.
So, anyone who wanted it got the green light to join ‘em, plain as day.
Thus, all them Lamanite prisoners jumped in with the Ammonites, and they started workin' hard, plowin' fields, growin' grains, and raisin' all sorts of critters, takin' a load off the Nephites.
After Moroni took Nephihah, he had nabbed a whole heaping of prisoners, which really knocked the Lamanites’ armies down some pegs, and he also got his Nephites back, beefin' up his own army good-like; so, off he went from Nephihah to Lehi's land.
Once the Lamanites spotted Moroni makin' his move, they were spooked again and took off runnin' from his army.
On they went, Moroni and his crew, chasin’ 'em from town to town ‘til they teamed up with Lehi and Teancum, and the Lamanites scampered down by the seashore ‘til they made it to Moroni's turf.
And all them Lamanite armies were bunched together like a pack of dogs in Moroni's land. And wouldn’t ya know it, but their king Ammoron was amongst ‘em too.
So, Moroni, Lehi, and Teancum set up camp 'round the edges of Moroni’s land, with the Lamanites caught like a bug in a jar, surrounded by wilderness on the south and east.
And that’s how they hunkered down for the night. Both sides were worn-out from all the marchin’, so nobody came up with any tricks in the dark, except Teancum, who was hotter than a firecracker ‘cause of Ammoron, reckonin’ he and his brother Amalickiah was the reason for all this ruckus and heartache, all that bloodshed and hunger.
In his anger, Teancum snuck off into the Lamanites’ camp and climbed down those city walls. He wandered around huntin’ for the king, and when he found him, he tossed a javelin that nearly sent him to the grave. Sadly, the king woke his guards before he kicked the can, and they went after Teancum, endin' his life.
Now, when Lehi and Moroni caught wind that Teancum was gone, they felt as low as a snake’s belly; he was a brave soul who stood up for his people, a true friend to freedom, and he’d been through more than his fair share of hard times. But now he was gone, joinin’ the ranks of the deceased.
Come the next mornin’, Moroni marched back out and clobbered those Lamanites, sendin' them packin' and givin' 'em a good ol’ thrashin’; they didn’t dare return against the Nephites that day.
That was how the thirty-first year ended with them judges over the Nephites; lots of wars, blood spills, famines, and sorrows, it was a long road.
There’d been murders and fights, and all sorts of wickedness among the Nephites; yet, for the righteous folks’ sake, and ‘cause of their prayers, they got spared.
But with the war dragging on, reckon some folks got hard-hearted from all that strife; still, others softened up from their afflictions, humblin' themselves right down before God, crawlin’ low as they could.
After Moroni fortified the most vulnerable spots against the Lamanites, makin' sure they were strong as could be, he headed back to Zarahemla; and Helaman followed suit to settle back where he belonged, and peace finally returned to the Nephites.
So, Moroni passed the command of his armies to his son, Moronihah, and he retired to his home, lookin' to enjoy the rest of his days in peace.
Pahoran plopped back down in his judgment seat, and Helaman picked up preachin' to the folks ‘bout God’s Word, since things had gotten messy with all that fightin'.
So, Helaman and his brothers hit the road, shoutin’ the Word of God with powerful conviction 'til plenty folks caught on to their wrongdoings, makin’ ‘em wanna repent and be baptized in the name of the Lord.
And just like that, they got the church back up and runnin’ all across the land.
Yup, and they set some rules down about the law. Chose judges and chief judges, all organized like.
As time rolled on, the Nephites began to flourish again, populatin' and growin' strong, livin' it up like kings and queens.
But even with all that riches, strength, and success, they didn’t let it go to their heads; they kept humble and remembered the Lord their God, stayin' low before Him.
Oh yeah, they kept on rememberin’ all the mighty ways the Lord saved 'em, pullin' them from death, bonds, prisons, and all sorts of troubles, rescuin' ‘em from their enemies too.
And they prayed to the Lord their God non-stop, and He showered 'em with blessings, growin’ strong and prosperin' in their land.
And all these things happened, and Helaman met his maker, passin’ on in the thirty-fifth year out of the judges over the Nephites.
