Well now, it all started when Alma made his way back from that land called Gideon, y’know, after teachin’ them folks a whole mess of stuff that ain't fit to be written down, settlin' up the church just like he done before over in Zarahemla. He finally made it back to his own place in Zarahemla to kick back and rest up after all that hard work.
And that’s how the ninth year of them judges in charge of the Nephi folks wrapped up.
Then, as the tenth year rolled around with them judges still runnin' things ‘round Nephi, Alma packed up and headed on over to the land of Melek, which is on the west side of the river Sidon, right by the wilderness.
He started teachin’ the people over in Melek, followin’ that holy order God had laid out for him, and he wasn’t shy ‘bout spreadin’ the word all over the land.
Next thing ya know, folks started showin’ up from all over the place, even out by the wilderness side. They were gettin' themselves baptized all around.
So, after he wrapped up his business in Melek, he took off and made a three-day trek up north, endin’ up in a town called Ammonihah.
Now, it was just the way them Nephites did things, naming all their lands, towns, and even little bitty villages after the first fella who owned 'em; that’s how it was with Ammonihah too.
Then, when Alma got to Ammonihah, he started preachin' God's word to ‘em.
But let me tell ya, ol' Satan had a mighty strong grip on the hearts of them Ammonihah folks; they just wouldn't listen to what Alma was sayin'.
Still, Alma put in a whole heap of effort in prayer, wrestlin' with God to pour His Spirit out on those people, hopin' to get a chance to baptize ‘em and help ‘em repent.
But nah, they just stiffened up their hearts, tellin’ him: “Well, we know who you are, Alma. You’re the high priest of that church you set up all over the place, but we ain't part of your little church, and we ain’t buyin’ into them silly traditions.”
They went on to say, “And since we ain't part of your church, we reckon you ain’t got no power over us; and you handed the judgment-seat over to Nephihah, so you ain’t the chief judge no more.”
Well, once they finished spoutin’ all that, not listenin’ to his words, they went so far as to revile him and spit on him, bootin' him outta their town. He took off, headin’ toward the city called Aaron.
While he was on his way there, heavy-hearted and trudgin’ through loads of trouble ‘cause of them wicked people in ol' Ammonihah, wouldn't you know it, an angel from the Lord popped right up and told him:
“Bless your heart, Alma; you best lift your head and rejoice, 'cause you got every reason to be happy. You've been a good’n keepin’ God’s commandments since the first message you got from Him. Yep, I’m the one who brought that message to ya.”
And the angel went on, “Now I’m here to tell ya to head back to Ammonihah and preach to the folks there again. Tell ‘em, if they don’t repent, the Lord God’s gonna wipe ‘em out.”
“See, they’re studyin’ up right now on how to take away your folks’ freedom, and that don’t sit right with the Lord’s laws and commandments.”
Well, after ol' Alma got that message from the angel, he skedaddled right back to Ammonihah quick-like. He snuck into the city from a different route, comin' in from the south side.
Now, when he got into town, he was feelin’ a might hungry, so he asked a feller, “Hey there, could ya spare a bite for a humble servant of God?”
The man replied, “Well shoot, I’m a Nephite, and I reckon you’re a holy prophet ‘cause an angel told me in a vision that you’d come. So, come on over to my house, and I’ll share my grub with ya; I know you’ll be a blessing to me and my kin.”
So the man took Alma home, and this feller’s name was Amulek; he laid out some bread and meat for Alma.
And wouldn't ya know it, Alma ate that bread and was filled up, blessin’ Amulek and his family, givin’ thanks to God.
After he had eaten and was satisfied, Alma says to Amulek, “Well now, I’m Alma, the high priest over God’s church all ‘round these parts.”
And he continued, “I’ve been called to share God’s word with all these people, reflectin' the spirit of revelation and prophecy; but I got kicked out while I was here last time and was fixin’ to turn my back on this land forever.”
But lo and behold, I got the word to turn back around and prophesy to these people, callin’ ‘em out for their sins.
And Amulek, ‘cause ya took me in and fed me, you’re mighty blessed; I was starvin’, havin’ fasted for many days.
Alma hung around with Amulek for quite a spell before he hit the ground preachin’ to the folks.
And while he was at it, them people kept sinkin’ deeper into their wickedness.
Then the word came to Alma sayin’, “Go on, and tell my buddy Amulek to prophesy to this people, sayin’ — “Repent now, ‘cause I’m tellin’ ya, if ya don’t, I’m comin’ for y’all in anger; I ain't holdin' back my fierce wrath.”
So Alma went out, and Amulek too, spreadin’ the words of God among the folks, and they were filled with the Holy Ghost.
They were given power, so much so that they couldn’t be locked up in no dungeons, nor could anyone take them down; but they didn’t use their power until they was all tied up and tossed into prison. Now, that was all done so the Lord could show off His strength through ‘em.
Then they took off, preachin’ and prophesyin' to the folks, propelled by the spirit and power the Lord had given ‘em.
