The words of Alma, and also the words of Amulek, that they told to the folks livin’ in the land of Ammonihah. And, shoot, they got thrown in jail, but God’s miraculous power pulled ‘em out, just like it says in Alma’s record.
Alma tells them folks in Ammonihah to straighten up—The Lord’s gonna show some mercy to them Lamanites in the last days—If the Nephites turn their backs on the light, the Lamanites’ll bring ‘em down—The Son of God’s comin’ soon—He’ll save those who repent, get baptized, and trust in His name. This here’s ‘round 82 B.C.
And again, I, Alma, got the word from God that I oughta grab Amulek and head on out to preach again to them folks in Ammonihah. So, when I started preachin’, they didn’t take too kindly to it, sayin’:
Who you think you are? Ya think we gonna believe just one fella’s word, even if he says the whole world’s gonna end?
Well, they didn’t get the point of their own words; they didn’t even know the world was fixin’ to pass away.
And they also said: We ain’t gonna believe you if you prophesy that this big ol’ city’s gonna be wiped off the map in a single day.
Now, they sure didn’t realize that God could pull off such amazin’ things, ‘cause they were hard-headed and set in their ways.
And they tossed this out there: Who’s God, that he’d send just one man to tell us the truth ‘bout all these big, fancy things?
And they stepped up to grab hold of me, but guess what? They didn’t. I stood tall and told ’em, yeah, I boldly declared:
Look here, you wicked and twisted folks, how could ya forget what your daddies taught? I mean, how quick y’all done forgotten the commandments of God?
Don’t you remember when our pap, Lehi, was yanked outta Jerusalem by God’s own hand? Don’t you remember how he led his people through the wilderness?
And have y’all forgot so dang soon how many times he saved our folks from their enemies, kept ‘em from bein’ wiped out, even by their own kin?
Yeah, if it hadn’t been for His incredible power, mercy, and patience with us, we’d have been wiped off this here earth long ago, maybe even sent to a never-endin’ misery.
Look, now I’m tellin’ ya, He tells ya to repent; and if ya don’t, you ain’t gettin’ into the kingdom of God. But hold on, that ain’t all—He’s commanded ya to repent, or He’ll completely wipe ya off the face of the earth; yep, He’ll come at ya in His wrath, and He ain’t gonna hold back.
Hey, y’all don’t remember what He told Lehi, sayin’: As long as ya keep my commandments, you’ll be doin’ alright in the land? And again He said: If ya don’t keep my commandments, you gonna be cut off from the Lord’s presence.
Now I want ya to remember, ‘cause the Lamanites haven’t kept God’s commandments, they’re cut off from Him. Now we can see the Lord’s word is true, and the Lamanites have been cut off since they started messin’ up in the land.
Still, I’m sayin’ it’s gonna be easier for them when the judgment day rolls around than for y’all, if you stay in your sins, and even easier for them in this life than you, unless ya repent.
There’s a whole lotta promises for the Lamanites, ‘cause it’s their daddy’s traditions that kept them in the dark; so the Lord’s gonna be kind to ‘em and give ‘em some extra time here.
And one of these days, they gonna come to believe in His word and see how wrong their daddies’ ways were; and many of ‘em will be saved, ‘cause the Lord’s merciful to everyone who calls on His name.
But listen here, if you keep up with your wickedness, your days gonna be numbered here, ‘cause the Lamanites are gonna come for ya; and if ya don’t turn around, they’ll show up when you least expect it, and you gonna see total destruction, all thanks to the fierce anger of the Lord.
He ain’t gonna let ya keep livin’ in your sins, to wipe out His people. I’m tellin’ ya, No; He’d rather let the Lamanites wipe out all His folks, the Nephites, if it means they fall into sins after gettin’ so much light and knowledge from Him;
Yup, after bein' the most favored folks of the Lord; after havin’ more blessings than any other nation, tribe, tongue, or people; after knowin’ everything they asked for, based on their faith and prayers, ‘bout what’s been, what is, and what’s comin’;
After bein’ visited by God’s Spirit; talkin’ to angels, hearin’ the Lord’s voice; and havin’ the spirit of prophecy, revelation, and lots of gifts, like speakin’ in tongues, preachin’, the Holy Ghost, and translation;
Yeah, and after bein’ saved by God outta Jerusalem by the Lord’s own hand; keepin’ ‘em safe from famine, sickness, and all kinds of diseases; makin’ ‘em strong in battle so they wouldn’t be wiped out; keepin’ ‘em from bondage time and time again, and they’ve prospered till they’re just rich in every way—
And now I’m tellin’ you, if this here people, who’ve been blessed so much by the Lord’s hand, mess up and go against the light and knowledge they got, I’m sayin’ it’d be way easier for the Lamanites than for them.
‘Cause let’s be real, the Lord’s promises go out to the Lamanites, but if you rebel, they ain’t for you; ‘cause hasn’t the Lord made it clear that if ya turn against Him, you’ll be totally wiped out from the earth?
So listen up, so you don’t get destroyed, the Lord sent His angel to visit many of His people, tellin’ ‘em they gotta go shout loudly to this crowd, sayin’: Repent, ‘cause the kingdom of heaven’s right around the corner;
And it won’t be long till the Son of God comes in His glory; and His glory will be just like the Only Begotten of the Father, full of grace, fairness, and truth, quick to listen to the cries of His people and to answer their prayers.
And look, He’s comin’ to save those who get baptized with a change of heart, through faith in His name.
So, prep the way for the Lord, ‘cause the time is near that all folks’ll reap what they’ve sown, based on what they’ve been—if they’ve been good, they’ll reap the salvation of their souls, thanks to Jesus Christ; and if they’ve been bad, they’ll pay the price for their souls, ‘cause of the devil’s hold on ‘em.
Now looky here, this is the angel’s voice, callin’ out to the people.
And now, my dear brethren, ‘cause you’re my brethren, and you oughta be loved, you gotta show some fruits fit for repentance, seein’ as your hearts have grown real hard against God’s word, and seein’ as you’re a lost and fallen people.
Well, it came to pass that when I, Alma, spoke these words, wouldn’t ya know the people got mad at me ‘cause I called ‘em hard-hearted and stiff-necked.
And they were right riled up ‘cause I told ‘em they were lost and fallen, and they went lookin’ to lay their hands on me and throw me in jail.
But the Lord wouldn’t let ‘em take me that time and throw me in prison.
Then Amulek stepped up and started preachin’ to ‘em too. Now, I reckon not all of Amulek’s words got written down, but some of what he said is found in this here book.
