Jesus Christ did ride into view for the folks of Nephi, while the crowd was all gathered ‘round the temple in the land of Bountiful, and He tended to their needs; and that’s how He showed up to ‘em.
And it came to pass that a whole heap of folks gathered ‘round the temple in Bountiful; they were a-wonderin’ and jawin’ about the amazing turn of events that had happened.
They were also chattin’ about this Jesus Christ, of whom word had been spread about his passin’.
And while they were shootin’ the breeze, they heard a voice comin’ from the heavens; and they looked 'round confused-like, not comprehending the voice they heard; and it weren’t no thunderous shout, nor was it boisterous; nevertheless, that soft voice struck right to their core, makin’ ‘em shiver all over; yep, it cut right to their spirits, settin’ their hearts ablaze.
Then it came to pass that they heard the voice again, but still didn’t understand it.
Once more, the third time they heard the voice and were a-listenin’ keenly; with their eyes fixed up towards the sound, they were lookin’ steadily at the sky where the sound came from.
And lo and behold, this third time they got the hang of what the voice was sayin’; it spoke to ‘em:
“Looky here, my Beloved Son, who I’m mighty proud of, in whom I’ve glorified my name—listen to him.”
And it came to pass, as they got a grip on it, they looked up to the heavens, and behold, they saw a Man comin’ down from above; He was dressed in a white robe; He landed right in the middle of ‘em; and every one of ‘em was focused on Him, not daring to utter a word, not knowin’ what it all meant, thinkin’ it was an angel that had showed up.
And it came to pass that He stretched out His hand and spoke to the crowd, sayin’:
“Behold, I am Jesus Christ, the one the prophets said’d come to this world.”
And behold, I’m the light and the life of this world; I’ve taken a swig from that bitter cup that the Father handed to me, and I’ve brought glory to the Father by takin’ on the sins of the world, fulfillin’ His will in all things right from the get-go. 
When Jesus finished sayin’ these words, the whole crowd dropped to the ground; ‘cause they remembered it was foretold that Christ would show Himself to ‘em after He ascended to heaven.
And then the Lord spoke to ‘em, sayin’:
“Get up and come to me, so you can put your hands on my side, and feel the nail marks in my hands and feet, so you can know I’m the God of Israel, the God of the whole wide world, and I got slain for the sins of mankind.”
So, the crowd moved on up, and they put their hands on His side, feelin’ the nail marks in His hands and feet; one by one they approached, all having the chance to see with their own eyes, feel with their own hands, know for certain, and bear witness that it was Him, just as the prophets had detailed.
And when they all stepped forward and seen for themselves, they shouted all together, sayin’:
“Hosanna! Blessed be the name of the Most High God!” And they fell at the feet of Jesus, worshipin’ Him.
Then it came to pass that He spoke to Nephi (since Nephi was part of the crowd), and told him to come on forward.
Nephi got up and approached, bowin’ low before the Lord and kissed His feet.
The Lord instructed him to stand up, and so he did, risin’ before Him.
The Lord said to him: “I’m givin’ you the power to baptize this here people when I ascend back to heaven.”
And again, the Lord called on others, givin’ them the same instruction; He gave them power to baptize, sayin’: “This is how you shall baptize; and don’t let there be no arguments among you.”
“Listen up, whoever turns from their sins because of your words, and wants to be baptized in my name, this is how you do it—Just go on down and get in the water, and in my name, you’ll baptize ‘em.”
And behold, these are the words you’re to say, callin' ‘em by name, sayin’:
“With the authority given to me by Jesus Christ, I baptize you in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen.”
Then you’ll dunk ‘em under the water, and bring ‘em back up again.
And this is how you’ll baptize in my name; for listen close, I tell ya, the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost are one; I’m in the Father, the Father’s in me, and we’re one and the same.
And just as I instructed you, that’s how you’ll baptize. No debates should be flyin’ around among you, like there’s been so far; nor should there be any arguments ‘bout my teachings like there’s been before.
For I tell you straight up, whoever’s got that spirit of fightin’ is not with me, but of the devil, who’s the father of disputes, stirrin’ up the hearts of folks to bicker in anger with one another.
You see, my doctrine ain’t to get folks all riled up against each other; it’s to put an end to the likes of that.
Now hear me well, I’m about to lay out my doctrine for you.
And this here is my doctrine, given to me by the Father; I bear witness of the Father, and the Father bears witness of me, and the Holy Ghost bears witness of the Father and me; I testify that the Father commands all folks everywhere to repent and have faith in me.
And whoever believes in me and gets baptized, they’ll be saved; they’re the ones who’ll get to inherit the kingdom of God.
And whoever don’t believe in me, and don’t get baptized, they’ll be damned.
I’m tellin’ you true, this is my doctrine, and I bear witness to it on behalf of the Father; and whoever believes in me, believes in the Father too; and the Father’s gonna testify of me to that fella, ‘cause He’ll come to him with fire and the Holy Ghost.
And thus the Father will testify of me, and the Holy Ghost will bear witness to him of the Father and me; for the Father, me, and the Holy Ghost are one.
And once more I say unto you, you gotta repent, become like a little child, and be baptized in my name, or you won’t be able to receive these things at all.
Again I say to you, you must repent and be baptized in my name, and be like a little child, or you can’t inherit the kingdom of God.
I tell you straight up, this is my doctrine, and whoever builds on this here will be buildin’ on solid ground, and the gates of hell won’t stand a chance against ‘em.
And whoever declares more or less than this and makes a doctrine outta it, that one’s got evil roots, and ain’t buildin’ on solid ground; they’re just buildin’ on sandy soil, and when storms come and the winds blow, the gates of hell will be open wide to welcome ‘em.
So, go out to this here people, and share the words I’ve spoken, all the way to the ends of the earth.
