Listen up, partner, I reckon it’s high time we talked about doin’ good deeds for them less fortunate folks, but don’t go showin’ off your generosity to the whole wide world, or your heavenly pop won’t be givin’ you no kudos.
So, when ya go doin’ good, don’t be blowin’ a horn like them hypocrites do in the church and the streets, trying to get folks to pat 'em on the back. I’m tellin’ ya straight, they’ve already got their reward.
But when you do good, keep it hush-hush, like don’t let your left hand know what your right hand’s up to;
So that your good deeds are kept on the down-low; and your Father, who knows what happens when nobody’s lookin’, will let you reap your rewards right out in the open.
And when ya pray, don’t pull a stunt like them hypocrites, ’cause they love to stand around in the church and on the street corners where everyone can see ’em. I’m tellin’ ya, they’ve already gotten their rewards.
But you, when you pray, head on into your closet, and when you’ve locked the door tight, have a heart-to-heart with your Father who’s keepin' it private; and he’ll give you a shout-out in front of everyone.
Now, when you do your prayin’, don’t be just rattlin’ off the same old words like them heathens, thinkin’ that louder means better.
Don’t be like ‘em, ‘cause your Father knows what you need before you even open your mouth.
This is how you should pray: Our Father up in heaven, your name is holy.
May your will happen on this here earth just like it does in heaven.
And pardon our debts just like we forgive them who owe us.
And keep us outta temptation, but whisk us away from evil.
‘Cause yours is the kingdom, the power, and the glory, forevermore. Amen.
If you forgive folks their wrongs, your heavenly Father will forgive you too;
But if you don’t forgive ‘em, neither will he wipe your slate clean.
And when you’re fasting, don’t look all sad and pitiful like them hypocrites, who scrunch up their faces to make a show of it. I’m tellin’ ya, they’ve already gotten their reward.
But when you fast, wash up and smooth your hair;
So nobody knows you’re fasting except your Father, who’s in secret, and he’ll make sure to reward you out in the open.
Don’t go hoarding up treasures down here on earth, where moths and rust can mess ‘em up, and thieves can snatch ‘em away;
Instead, stack up your treasures in heaven, where no moth nor rust can touch ‘em, and thieves can’t come a-stealin’.
‘Cause where your treasure’s at, that’s where your heart will be too.
The eye is the light of the body; if your eye is good, your whole body is bright as the morning sun.
But if your eye is bad, your whole body is wrapped in darkness. So if the light you think you got is actually darkness, how deep is that darkness?
No one can split their loyalty between two bosses, 'cause they’ll either love one and hate the other, or stick with one and look down on the other. You can’t ride for God and riches at the same time.
Now, once Jesus finished jawin’, he looked at them twelve he had picked and said: Remember what I’ve said here. You’re the ones I’ve chosen to serve this folks. So don’t go worryin’ about your lives, what you’ll eat or drink, or what you’ll wear. Ain’t life more than just grub, and a body more than just fancy threads?
Look at them birds in the sky; they don’t plant no seeds, they don’t harvest, and they don’t stash away in barns; but your heavenly Father makes sure they’re fed. Ain’t you a whole lot more valuable than them?
Who among y’all can add an inch to your height by worryin’ about it?
And why’re you frettin’ over what to wear? Look at the flowers growin’ out in the fields, they don’t labor nor weave;
Yet I tell ya, even King Solomon in all his fancy gear ain’t dressed better than one of them.
So if God’s gonna dress the grass of the field, which today lives and tomorrow gets tossed in the fire, surely he’ll take care of you too, if you ain’t got little faith.
So don’t go fretting about what we’ll eat, what we’ll drink, or what we’ll wear?
Your heavenly Father knows you need all that.
But first, make sure you’re seekin’ the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and everything else will be thrown in for good measure.
So don’t be worrying ‘bout tomorrow, ‘cause tomorrow’s got its own troubles to deal with. Today’s got enough of its own rough stuff.
