Well now, I reckon the Good Lord's got some other critters out there from the lost herd of Israel— in these latter days, the good word’s gonna spread to the Gentiles first, then back to the folks of Israel—When the Lord brings Zion back, His followers will be seein' things straight.
Now I tell ya straight, I've got other sheep that ain't from these parts, nor the land of Jerusalem, nor anywhere 'round those bits where I’ve been preachin' my message.
The folks I’m jawin' about ain't heard me holler yet; I ain't ever shown myself to 'em, neither.
But I got a command from the Father that I should ride on over to 'em, so they can hear my voice and be counted as part of my fold—one herd under one shepherd; that's why I'm saddlin' up to go show myself to 'em.
I’m givin' you a right order to jot these words down once I'm gone. If my people in Jerusalem, who’ve seen me and followed along on my journey, don’t ask the Father in my name for a knowledge of ya through the Holy Ghost, and of them other tribes they ain't even heard of, I want you to keep these words safe and sound. They'll be shown to the Gentiles, so the fullness of the Gentiles can help gather in those scattered remnants from their own folks who done gone astray.
And then I'm gonna wrangle 'em up from every corner of the earth; and I’ll make sure the covenant the Father made with all the tribes of Israel gets fulfilled.
Blessed be the Gentiles, 'cause they believe in me and the Holy Ghost, which tells 'em about me and the Father.
Looky here, because they believe in me, says the Father, and due to the lack of faith from you, O house of Israel, in these last days, the truth’s gonna come to the Gentiles, makin' sure all these things are laid bare for 'em.
But woe unto the Gentiles who don't believe, says the Father— 'cause even though they’ve come up here on this land and scattered my people from the house of Israel, my folks from Israel have been pushed out by 'em and walked all over.
And 'cause of the Father’s mercy towards the Gentiles, and His judgment on my people from Israel— I tell ya true, after all this mess, I've seen my people from Israel get beat down, sufferin', killed off, cast away, and become hated among 'em, known only as a hiss and a byword—
And that's how the Father commands me to tell ya: In those days when the Gentiles turn their backs on my gospel, rejectin' its fullness, and puffed up with pride over all the nations and folks on this wide earth, and filled with lies, deceit, mischief, hypocrisy, murders, and all sorts of foul plays; if they go and do all that, and toss the fullness of my gospel aside, behold, the Father says, I'll take that fullness away from among 'em.
Then I'll remember the covenant I made with my people, O house of Israel, and I’ll bring my gospel right back to 'em.
I'm gonna show you, O house of Israel, that the Gentiles won't have any power over y'all; I’ll keep my promise to you, O house of Israel, and you'll come to know the fullness of my gospel.
But if the Gentiles choose to turn around and come back to me, says the Father, they’ll be counted as part of my people, O house of Israel.
And I won’t let my people from Israel be walkin' amongst them and be trampled, says the Father.
But if they’ll not turn to me and listen to my call, I’ll let 'em fend for themselves, yes indeed, I’ll let my people, O house of Israel, be walkin' through 'em, treadin' 'em down, and they’ll be like salt that’s lost its flavor, good for nothin' but to be thrown out and walked over by my people, O house of Israel.
I tell ya true, the Father commanded me to say that this land is to be given to this people as their inheritance.
Then the words of that prophet Isaiah will come true, which say:
Your watchmen will raise their voices and sing together; they’ll all see things eye to eye when the Lord brings Zion back.
Rejoice and sing, you desolate places of Jerusalem; for the Lord’s comforted His folks, He’s redeemed Jerusalem.
The Lord’s shown His mighty arm to all the nations, and all corners of the earth will witness the salvation of God.
