Well now, it came to pass that when Jesus had finished his talk, he looked ‘round at the folks, and said to ‘em: Listen up, my time’s come.
I see y’all are a bit wore down, and you ain’t catchin' all the words I been sent by the Father to share with ya.
So, how ‘bout y’all head on back to your homesteads, chew over what I said, and ask the Father, in my name, for some understanding. Get your noggins ready for what’s comin’ tomorrow, ‘cause I’ll be back to see ya.
But right now, I’m headin’ to the Father, and I’m fixin’ to show myself to the lost tribes of Israel, who ain’t lost to the Father, ‘cause He knows exactly where they’ve wandered off to.
And it came to pass that after he had said all this, he looked over at the folks again, and saw they were in tears, starin’ at him like they wanted him to hang around a spell longer.
And he told ‘em: Look, I’m just filled up inside with compassion for you all.
Do any of y’all have folks who are sick? Bring ‘em on over. Got any who are limpin’, or can’t see, or can’t walk right, or have been hurt, or got that nasty leprosy, or are all withered up, or can’t hear, or just about any kind of ailment? Bring 'em here, and I’ll set ‘em right, ‘cause I care for you; my heart is full of mercy.
I can tell you’re hopin’ I’d show you what I done for your kinfolk back in Jerusalem, 'cause your faith is strong enough for me to heal ya.
And it came to pass that when he finished speaking, the whole crowd, all together, moved forward with their sick and ailing, their limpin’ and blind, those who couldn’t speak, and all those folks who were sufferin’ in any way; and he healed every last one of ‘em as they came up to him.
And they all, healed or whole, bowed down at his feet, worshipin’ him; and as many as could crowd in, kissed his feet, so much that they soaked ‘em with their tears.
And it came to pass that he called for the little children to be brought forth.
So they brought their young’uns and set ‘em down on the ground all ‘round him, and Jesus stood there in the middle; and the crowd made way ‘til all the kiddos had been brought to him.
And it came to pass that when all the little ones were gathered, Jesus commanded the crowd to kneel down on the dirt.
And it came to pass that when they had knelt down, Jesus groaned deep inside and said: Father, I’m troubled by the ways of the folks of the house of Israel.
And when he said that, he too knelt down in the dirt; and lo and behold, he prayed to the Father, and what he prayed can’t be put into words, and the crowd bore witness to those who heard him.
And this is the kind of witness they gave: The eye’s never seen, nor the ear ever heard before, such wonderous and marvelous things as we saw and heard Jesus speakin’ to the Father;
And no tongue can tell, nor can any man write it down, nor can the hearts of men comprehend the great and marvelous things we saw and heard Jesus say; and no one can grasp the joy that filled our souls when we heard him pray for us to the Father.
And it came to pass that when Jesus finished prayin’ to the Father, he stood up; but the joy of the crowd was so strong they was overwhelmed.
And it came to pass that Jesus spoke to ‘em and told ‘em to get up.
And they rose from the ground, and he told ‘em: Y’all are blessed ‘cause of your faith. And look here, my joy’s runnin’ over.
And when he’d spoken those words, he shed tears, and the crowd took note of it; and he took each little child one at a time, blessed ‘em, and prayed to the Father for ‘em.
And when he’d done this, he wept once more;
And he spoke to the crowd and said: Look at your little ones.
And as they looked, they turned their eyes up to the sky, and they saw the heavens openin’, and angels comin’ down like they were wrapped in flames; and they surrounded those little ones, and they were wrapped in fire; and the angels tended to ‘em.
And the crowd saw and heard and bore witness; they knew their witness was true ‘cause each one of ‘em saw and heard for themselves; and about two thousand five hundred souls stood tall in number, men, women, and children all together.
