In them last days, Zion and her strongholds will sprout up, and the folks of Israel will be gathered up in kindness and gentle love—they’ll come out on top—just like Isaiah mentioned back in the day. 'Bout A.D. 34.
And then what’s been said will come to be: Sing, O barren woman, who ain't got a single young'un; break into song and holler, you who ain't felt the pangs of birth—‘cause there’ll be more kids among the lonely than among the married, says the Good Lord.
Make those tents mighty big, and let ‘em pull out the canvas of your camp; don’t hold back, stretch out those ropes and shore up your stakes;
‘Cause you’re gonna burst forth on the right and on the left, and your offspring will take over the lands of the Gentiles and breathe life into the empty towns.
Don’t you fret none, 'cause you ain't gonna feel shame; don’t you get all flustered, for you ain’t gonna be humiliated; you’ll forget the blush of your young days and ain’t gonna remember the shame from your widowhood anymore.
For your maker, your man, the Lord of Hosts is his name; and your Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel—the God of this whole wide world he’s known as.
For the Lord’s called you like a woman who’s been left lonely and downhearted, and a young wife when you got cast aside, says your God.
I may have left you for a tick, but I’ll gather you up with a heap of mercy.
For just a little bit, I hid my face from you, but with everlasting kindness, I’ll show you mercy, says the Lord your Redeemer.
For this, the waters of Noah mean to me, just like I promised the waters of Noah wouldn’t cover the earth again, I swore I wouldn’t be angry with you.
For the mountains might up and leave, and the hills might take a hike, but my kindness won't leave you, nor will the promise of my peace be taken away, says the Lord who’s got mercy on you.
O you who’ve been battered and tossed about, not feelin’ settled! Look here, I’ll lay your stones down all pretty-like, and set your foundations with sapphires.
And I’ll make your windows out of agates, and your gates out of gemstones, and your borders up with lovely stones.
And all your kids will be taught by the Lord; and great will be the peace of your little ones.
In righteousness, you’ll be set up right; you’ll be far away from oppression ‘cause you won’t be scared, and from terror ‘cause it won’t come close to you.
Look here, they may come together to gang up on you, but not by my doing; whoever huddles up against you will fall flat for your sake.
Look here, I made the blacksmith who stirs the coals in the fire, and who crafts tools for his trade; and I fashioned the destroyer to bring ruin.
No weapon that’s forged against you will stand a chance; and every tongue that rises up against you in judgment, you’ll shut down. This here’s the legacy of the Lord’s servants, and their righteousness comes from me, says the Lord.
