Well now, lemme lay it out for ya in a way that’s easier to chew on: 
Jesus lays down the whole kit ‘n caboodle from start to finish—young ‘uns and small fry speak up with things so wondrous ya can’t jot 'em down—Folks in the Church of Christ share everythin’ like family. ‘Bout A.D. 34.
Then it came to pass that when Jesus finished sharing this here wisdom, he went on to explain it all to the crowd; and he laid out the whole shebang, from the grand to the minute.
He goes on to say: These good ol' scriptures, which you didn’t have with ya, the Father told me to hand over to ya; it was smart of him to make sure they got passed down to the future folks.
And he laid bare everythin’, right from the get-go up to the time he’d strut in all his glory—yep, even all the happenings that’ll unfold ‘round this dusty ol’ earth, till the very rocks are scorched with blazing heat, and this here planet gets rolled up like a scroll, and the sky and earth take their leave;
And even up to that grand finale day, when all folks, and all bloodlines, and all nations and languages will stand ‘fore God, gettin' judged for what they've done, whether it’s been good or bad—
If they’ve been good, it’s on to eternal life; and if they’ve been bad, it’s a one-way trip to condemnation; both sittin' on their own pair of scales, one side with mercy and the other with justice and holiness found in Christ, who was around before the whole world was even thinkin' about poppin’ up.
Now, I reckon there’s a whole heap of things that could be scribbled down in this book, but even a hundredth part of what Jesus truly taught folks ain't gonna fit in here;
But take heed, the plates of Nephi sure do hold most of the stuff he shared with the good people.
And these here words I’ve penned down are just a slice of all he taught; I wrote ‘em so they’d be brought back to this here crowd, from the Gentiles, just like Jesus had yapped about.
And when they get a hold of this here bit first, to see if they’ll stick their necks out in faith, if they believe, then the bigger truths will come to light for ‘em.
But if they don’t believe this here spiel, then the greater wonders will be kept from ‘em, and they’ll find themselves in a heap of trouble.
I was fixin' to write all that was etched on the plates of Nephi, but the Lord put a halt to that, sayin’: I’m gonna test my folks’ faith.
So, I, Mormon, am puttin' down the things I've been told to by the Lord. Now I’m wrapin’ up my words and settin’ to write what I’ve been commanded.
So I want ya to see that the Lord truly had a good ol’ time teachin’ the folks for three full days; and after that, he turned up often, breakin’ bread and blessin’ it, givin’ it to ‘em.
Then it turned out that he was teachin’ and tendin’ to the young’uns from that big ol’ crowd, untangling their tongues so they could share mighty, marvelous tales, even grander than what he showed the folks; he loosened their lips so they could gab.
And it happened after he took off to heaven—for the second time he came back to see ‘em, after he headed on to the Father, after he’d healed all the sick, made the lame walk, opened up blind eyes, and unstopped deaf ears, performin’ all sorts of healings and raisin’ a fella from the dead, and showed ‘em just how powerful he was, before he ascended to the Father—
Well, the next mornin’, the crowd huddled together, and they saw and heard those little ones; even the babies opened their mouths and spoke wondrous things, and what they said was so grand that it shouldn’t be written down.
And the disciples that Jesus picked out got busy baptizin’ and teachin’ all who came their way; and every soul that got dunked in the name of Jesus was filled with the Holy Ghost.
And a whole passel of ‘em saw and heard things that ya just can’t write down.
They shared and ministered to each other; they had everything in common, treatin’ one another right as rain.
And it came to pass that they followed through on everything just like Jesus had asked ‘em to.
And those who got baptized in the name of Jesus were called the church of Christ.
