Jesus says the Church oughta be called by His name—His journey and sacrifice make up His gospel—Folks oughta repent and get baptized so they can be made pure by the Holy Ghost—They’re to be just like Jesus is. 'Bout A.D. 34-35.
So it happened that while Jesus' disciples were ridin’ and preachin’ about what they had seen and heard, doin' the whole baptizin' thing in Jesus' name, they came together, united in some serious prayin' and fastin’.
And again, Jesus showed up for 'em, 'cause they were prayin' to the Father in His name; and He stepped right into their midst, sayin’: What do y’all want me to do for ya?
And they replied: Boss, we reckon you oughta tell us the name we should call this here church, 'cause there's a heap of fussin’ among the folks 'bout it.
And the Good Lord replied: Listen close, I’m tellin’ ya straight, why’s the crowd gettin’ all riled up over this?
Ain’t they read the good book, sayin’ y’all gotta take on the name of Christ, which is my name? For by this name, y’all will be called on the final day;
And anyone who takes up my name and hangs on till the end, that fella will be saved on judgement day.
So, whatever y’all are doin’, do it in my name; hence, you’ll call the church by my name; and you’ll call on the Father in my name so He’ll bless the church for my sake.
And how can my church be anything but called by my name? If it’s called Moses’ name, then it’s Moses’ church; or if it’s named after a man, then it’s the church of a man; but if y’all call it by my name, then it’s my church, provided they’re built on my gospel.
I’m tellin’ ya true, y’all are built on my gospel; therefore, whatever you call, you need to do it in my name; thus, if you call on the Father for the church, if it’s in my name, the Father will hear ya;
And if the church stands on my gospel, then the Father will put His own works on display in it.
But if it ain’t built on my gospel, and instead is just folks’ handiwork, or the devil’s dippin’, I’m tellin’ ya they’ll have joy for a spell, but soon enough it'll come to an end, and they'll be cut down and thrown into the fire from which there ain’t no return.
Their deeds will follow 'em, since it’s their works that’ll bring 'em down; so don’t forget the things I'm tellin’ ya.
Now, listen up, I’ve given you my gospel, and this here’s my gospel—it’s that I came into this world to do my Father’s will, ‘cause my Father sent me.
And my Father sent me to be lifted up on that cross; and once I was lifted up, I’d draw all folks to me, just like I was lifted up by men, so folks would be lifted up by the Father to stand before me, judged by their works, whether good or bad—
And that’s why I was raised up; so, with the power of the Father, I’ll draw all folks to me so they can be judged by their works.
And it’ll go like this: anyone who repents and gets baptized in my name will be filled; and if they endure till the end, I won’t hold any guilt against 'em before my Father on that day when I judge the world.
And anyone who don’t hang on till the end, well, that one will also get cut down and tossed into the fire, where they can’t come back, ‘cause of the Father’s justice.
And this is the word He’s given to folks. He’s keepin’ His promises, and He ain't lyin’; He fulfills all His words.
And no dirty thing can enter into His kingdom; so nothin’ can join His rest unless it’s them who’ve washed their clothes in my blood, because of their faith, repentance for all their sins, and stayin' true till the end.
Now here’s the command: Repent, all y’all across this land, come on over to me and get baptized in my name, so ye can be made clean by the Holy Ghost, so you can stand pure before me on the final day.
For sure, for sure, I tell ya, this is my gospel; you know the things you gotta do in my church; the works you’ve seen me do, you’ll do too; what I’ve done, that’s what you’ll do;
So, if y’all do these things, y’all are blessed, ‘cause you’ll be raised up on the last day.
Write down the things you’ve seen and heard, except what ain’t allowed.
Write up the works of this here people, which shall become as it has been written, what has happened.
‘Cause look here, out of the books written and what’s gonna be written, this people will be judged, ‘cause by them, their deeds will be known to folks.
And know this, all things are written by the Father; therefore, out of the books written, the world will be judged.
And know y’all will be judges of this people, based on the judgment I’ll give ya, and it’ll be right. So, how should y’all act? I tell ya true, just like I am.
And now I’m headed to the Father. And surely, I say to ya, whatever you ask the Father in my name will be given to ya.
So, ask, and you’ll receive; knock, and the door will open for ya; ‘cause he who asks, gets; and to him who knocks, the door will swing wide.
And behold, my joy is mighty, overflowing, ‘cause of you, and this generation; yes, and even the Father is joyful, and all the holy angels, ‘cause of you and this generation; none of ‘em are lost.
Look here, I want you to understand; I mean those who are alive in this here generation; and none of ‘em are lost; in them, I’ve got the fullness of joy.
But I feel sorrow for the fourth generation from this one, ‘cause they’re bein’ led astray by the son of perdition; they’ll trade me for silver and gold, for that which rots and thieves can steal. And on that day, I’ll come to visit them, turnin’ their deeds back onto their own heads.
When Jesus finished up these talks, he told his disciples: Step right through that narrow gate; for narrow’s the way that leads to life, and few folks find it; but the gate’s wide, and the way’s broad that leads to death, and lots are travelin’ it till the night comes, when no man can do work anymore.
