It happened, after Jesus let those words fly, he turned to his disciples, talkin’ to each one right in the eye, sayin’: What’s it y’all want from me once I head back home to the Father?
Well, all of ‘em chimed in, ‘cept for three, sayin': We’re hopin’ that once we’ve rode this life out to the fullest, our workin’, which you called us to do, can come to a close so we can hightail it to you in your kingdom.
And he said to ‘em: Y’all are mighty blessed ‘cause ya asked this of me; so, after you hit seventy-two revolutions ‘round the sun, you’ll come on up to me in my kingdom; and with me, you’ll find some peace.
Then he turned to the three, lookin’ them square in the eye, and asked: What d’you want from me, once I make my way to the Father?
They felt a heavy sadness in their hearts, ‘cause they didn’t have the gumption to tell him what they truly wanted.
And he said: Well now, I know what’s weighin’ on your minds, and you’ve asked for what my dear buddy John wanted back when I was out preachin’ before they lifted me up before them Jews.
So you’re even more blessed, ‘cause you won’t ever face death; you’ll live to see all the mighty deeds of the Father for the children of men until everything’s wrapped up according to His will, when I roll in with my glory and all the heavenly powers.
And y’all won’t have to bear the pains of death; when I come in my glory, you’ll be changed quicker than a blink, from this here body to a heavenly state; and then you’ll be blessed in my Father’s kingdom.
Again, y’all won’t suffer while you’re still kickin’ here among the living, unless it’s for the sins of the world; and all this I’ll do ‘cause of the wish you’ve asked of me, to bring men’s souls to me while this old world keeps on turnin’.
For this reason, you’ll know the full joy of livin'; you’ll plop down in the kingdom of my Father; your joy’ll be overflowing, just like the abundance the Father’s given me; you’ll be like me, and I’m just like the Father; we’re one and the same.
And the Holy Ghost’s got the word on me and the Father; and the Father hands out the Holy Ghost to the folks ‘cause of me.
Then it happened that after Jesus had said all that, he touched each one of ‘em with his finger, ‘cept for the three who were to stick around, and then off he went.
And lo and behold, the heavens opened up wide, and they got swept up into the sky, seein’ and hearin’ things that words just can’t describe.
And they weren’t allowed to speak a peep; had no power to share what they witnessed.
And they couldn’t rightly say whether they were in their bodies or out of ‘em; it just felt like a big ol’ transformation, where they shifted from this flesh and bone into an immortal form where they could see the things of God.
But they found themselves back on the ground, ministerin’ to folks; yet they didn’t share a lick of what they’d seen and heard, ‘cause that was the order given to ‘em in heaven.
And whether they were still part of the mortal realm or not, that I’m not sure of;
But what I do know, from what’s been recorded, is they went out and about, ministerin’ to all the folks, gatherin’ as many as would believe into the church; baptizing ‘em, and those who got baptized received the Holy Ghost.
Then they got thrown in jail by folks who weren’t part of the church. But those cells couldn’t keep ‘em, ‘cause they busted right open.
They got dropped down to the earth; but they spoke the word of God with such power that it pulled ‘em from the depths of the earth, so deep pits for them just wouldn’t do.
They were tossed into the fire three times and came out without a scratch.
Twice, they were chucked into a den of wild beasts; but looky here, they played with them critters like a little calf with its mama, and came out unscathed.
So it was that they roamed around Nephi’s folk, preachin’ the gospel of Christ to all in the land; and folks turned to the Lord, joinin’ up with the church of Christ, blessin’ that whole generation just like Jesus said it would be.
And now, I, Mormon, reckon it’s time to hush about these matters for a spell.
Listen, I was fixin’ to jot down the names of those who’d never see death, but the Lord said no, so I ain’t writin’ ‘em down, ‘cause they’re hidden from the world.
But trust me, I’ve seen ‘em, and they done ministered to me.
And they’ll be among the Gentiles, though the Gentiles won’t even know they’re there.
They’ll also be among the Jews, and the Jews won’t see ‘em neither.
And it’ll come to pass when the Lord sees fit, in his wise way, that they’ll minister to all the scattered tribes of Israel, and to every nation, kindred, tongue, and people, clever-like bringin’ many souls to Jesus, fulfillin’ their desires, all ‘cause of the convincing power of God that’s in ‘em.
They’re like God’s angels, and if they holler up to the Father in Jesus’ name, they can show themselves to whoever they please.
So there’ll be mighty fine work done by ‘em, before that grand day when all folks must stand before Christ’s judgment seat;
Yup, even among the Gentiles, there’ll be some real miraculous things happenin’ through them before that day of reckoning.
And if you had all the scriptures that tell of Christ’s marvelous deeds, you’d know, ‘cause of his own words, that these things surely gotta happen.
And woe unto them who won’t listen to the words of Jesus, or to them he’s sent to them; ‘cause if they don’t take heed to the words of Jesus and them who’ve been sent, they’re not really takin’ Him in; and when the last day rolls ‘round, they’ll miss out;
And it’d be better for ‘em if they’d never been born. So, do you think you can sidestep the justice of a God who’s mighty offended, trampled underfoot by man, all so salvation could come?
Now, as I spoke about those the Lord picked, even three who were swept up to the heavens, wonderin’ if they got cleansed from mortality to immortality—
But since I wrote, I’ve asked the Lord, and he showed me clear as day that there’s gotta be a change made in their bodies, or they’d have to taste death;
So, to keep ‘em from slippin’ into death, a change was made, so they wouldn’t feel pain or sorrow, only for the world’s sins.
Now that change ain’t the same as what’s gonna happen on that last day; but there was still a shift made in ‘em, so that ol’ Satan had no power over ‘em, couldn’t tempt ‘em; and they were sanctified in the flesh, made holy, so the earthly powers couldn’t hold ‘em down.
And in this state, they were to stay until judgment day rolls in; at that time, they’ll get a grander change, taken into the Father’s kingdom to never wander away again, but to live with God forever in the heavens.
