The coming of the Book of Mormon is like a signal that the Good Lord's kickin' off the round-up of Israel and keepin' His promises—Them that turn their backs on His later-day messages and blessings are fixin' to face the music. 
Now listen up, folks, when the Lord decides it's high time, in His wisdom, to send these words to the Gentiles like He said He would, then you’ll know the agreement the Father made with the kids of Israel ‘bout bringin’ ‘em back to their rightful lands is already startin’ to play out.
And you can count on this – the words of the Lord, which the holy prophets have hollered about, will all come true; so don’t go thinkin’ the Lord’s takin’ his sweet time showin’ up for the folks of Israel.
And don't you dare let those thoughts of doubt creep into your hearts, thinkin’ the words spoken are just a bunch of hot air, ‘cause the Lord won’t forget His promise to His people from the house of Israel.
When you see these words comin’ your way, don’t be so quick to scoff at the Lord’s work, ‘cause His justice is ready as a rattlesnake; and come that day, if you choose to mock His doin’s, it’ll catch up to you quicker than a jackrabbit.
Woe be to the one who scoffs at the Lord’s work; you betcha, woe be to the one who denies the Christ and His deeds!
Yep, woe be to anyone who says there ain’t no revelations from the Lord, or that the Lord ain’t workin’ through revelation, prophecy, gifts, tongues, healings, or the power of the Holy Ghost!
And woe again to the feller who’ll say, just to line their pockets, that Jesus Christ can’t perform no miracles; for that one’ll end up like the son of perdition, who found no mercy, according to the word of Christ!
You best not keep hissin’, ridiculing, or playin’ tricks on the Jews or any part of the remnant of the house of Israel; for the Lord remembers His promise to ‘em, and He’ll handle ‘em according to what He swore.
So don’t you go thinkin’ that you can twist the Lord’s arm to change His mind, ‘cause He’ll make sure justice is served, fulfilling the covenant He made with the house of Israel.
