In them last days of the eighteenth year, them pesky robbers had their guns all loaded up for a showdown, comin' down from the hills and mountains, spillin' outta the wilds and their hideouts, startin' to stake a claim on the lands, both to the south and the north, settin' their sights on all the empty spaces the Nephites had left behind, and the towns that stood all lonely-like.
But lo and behold, them lands had no critters nor game for huntin’ left behind by the Nephites, and the robbers couldn't find nothin' to eat 'cept in the wilderness.
Them robbers couldn’t make a go of it unless they roamed through the wilds, starvin' for grub; 'cause the Nephites had left their lands barren, gatherin’ all their livestock and all their valuables, and were stickin' close together.
So, the robbers had no way to raid and scrounge for food unless they went full blast in a shootout with the Nephites; an' since those Nephites were all huddled together and outnumbered the bad guys, with stores of food and horses and cattle, and flocks aplenty, they figured they could hold out for seven years hopin' to rid their land of them robbers, and so the eighteenth year passed by.
Then in the nineteenth year, Giddianhi figured he’d best rustle up a fight against the Nephites since there was no other way for ‘em to live but to plunder and kill folks.
But they didn’t dare spread out across the land gatherin’ grain, scared that the Nephites’d swoop in and take ‘em down; so Giddianhi ordered his gang to head out for a showdown with the Nephites that year.
And sure enough, they rode out to battle; it was the sixth month, and by thunder, it was a dark and stormy day they picked to clash, all dressed up like low-down thieves; wearin’ lambskin round their waists, painted up in blood, their heads shaved, sportin’ headgear, and they appeared grim and fierce like a wild stampede.
When the Nephite gang laid eyes on Giddianhi's crew lookin' all fearsome, they dropped to the ground and cried out to the Lord, beggin' Him to spare ‘em and get 'em free from their enemies.
Well, when Giddianhi's crew heard this, they started shoutin’ with glee, thinkin' the Nephites were cowerin' like scared rabbits ‘cause of their mighty presence.
But they were dead wrong, 'cause the Nephites weren’t scared of 'em; no sir, they were mighty fearful of their God and prayed to Him for protection; so when Giddianhi's crew charged, them Nephites were ready, standin’ strong in the Lord’s power.
And thus the fight kicked off that sixth month; and I tell ya, it was a sight to see, a brutal battle, the likes of which hadn’t been seen among all the folks of Lehi since he hightailed it outta Jerusalem.
Even with all the threats and oaths Giddianhi had sworn, the Nephites out-fought 'em and sent 'em reelin' back with their tails tucked.
Then it happened that Gidgiddoni ordered his men to chase those robbers clean to the edges of the wilderness, not lettin’ any scallywag that stumbled into their hands escape; so they pursued ‘em and took ‘em down to the wilderness border, fulfillin’ Gidgiddoni’s orders.
Lo and behold, Giddianhi, who had stood his ground real brave, found himself bein' chased and weary from all that fightin’, and he sure got caught and taken down. And so it was the end for that Giddianhi the crook.
Then the Nephite forces turned back to their safe havens. The nineteenth year rolled away, and the robbers didn't show their faces for another fight; they stayed away in the twentieth year too.
Come the twenty-first year, they didn’t ride in for a battle but snuck ‘round all sides, tryin' to lay a trap for the Nephites; thinkin’ if they hemmed ‘em in on every side, restrictin' ‘em from their lands and freedoms, they could make ‘em throw in the towel.
Now they had themselves another top dog named Zemnarihah; he’s the feller who got this siege rollin’.
But you see, that was good fortune for the Nephites; 'cause them robbers couldn’t besiege ‘em long enough to put a dent in their spirits, what with all the supplies the Nephites had stockpiled.
And since the robbers were runnin' low on grub, the only thing they had for eatin’ was whatever meat they could nab in the wilds;
And it turned out the game in the wild was bein' hunted to near extinction, leavin' the robbers on the brink of starvin’.
Meanwhile, the Nephites kept on marchin’ day and night, keepin’ track of those roamin’ gangs, takin' ‘em out by the thousands.
The more the folks under Zemnarihah realized how much trouble they were in day and night, the more they wanted to back off from their plans.
So Zemnarihah gave orders for his folks to pack it up and head to the farthest parts up north.
Now Gidgiddoni caught wind of their scheme and knew they were weak ‘cause of their lack of food and the big losses they’d faced, so he sent his troops out under the cover of night, blockin’ their path of escape and settin’ up a trap.
They pulled this off without bein' spotted at night, movin’ out beyond the robbers so that come dawn, when them robbers started their march, they found themselves up against Nephite forces in front and behind.
And the robbers in the south couldn’t skedaddle neither. All this was done under Gidgiddoni’s orders.
Many thousands of ‘em gave up and surrendered to the Nephites, while the rest met their doom.
Their leader, Zemnarihah, was caught and hanged from a tree, right on top 'til he was finished off. Once he was good and dead, they toppled that tree down and raised their voices high, shoutin':
"May the Lord keep His folks walkin' the straight and narrow, keepin’ their hearts pure, so they can lay low all who try to wrangle ‘em down 'cause of power and sneaky ways, just like this feller has been brought low."
Then they cheered and hollered as one, sayin': "May the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob watch over this folks with righteousness, as long as they keep callin' on Him for shieldin’."
Thus they broke out in a joyous uproar, singin’ and givin’ thanks to their God for all the great things He’d done keepin’ ‘em safe from the jaws of their enemies.
Yeah, they hollered, "Hosanna to the Most High God!" They cried out, "Blessed be the name of the Almighty God, the Most High!"
Their hearts were swelled with joy, and tears flowed freely, all 'cause of God's great goodness in deliverin’ 'em from the grips of their foes; and they knew it was their repentance and humbleness that saved 'em from doom forever.
