Well now, looky here, there wasn't a single soul among the Nephites who had any doubts 'bout what them holy prophets proclaimed; they was all convinced that them words was gonna come true.
They knew it was mighty important that Christ had swung by, 'cause of all them signs the prophets had foretold, and since a heap of things had already gone down, they figured all that was said would surely come to pass.
So they tossed aside all their wrongdoings, sinful acts, and sleazy habits, and threw themselves into servin' God day and night with all their might.
Well, it turned out when they rounded up all them robbers and not a single one got away unharmed, they locked 'em up and made sure the word of God came ‘round to them; all those willing to turn from their wrongs and promise to stop the killin’ were let free.
But plenty of others who wouldn't make that promise and kept those secret thoughts of murkiness in their hearts, yep, them folks breathin' out threats against their own kind got what was comin' to 'em, faced the law and paid the price.
And that’s how they managed to put an end to all them evil, secret, and downright repulsive schemes, where so much sin and murder was a-brewin’.
And so it was that the twenty-second year slipped on by, followed by the twenty-third, the twenty-fourth, and the twenty-fifth; five whole years just rolled on past.
A whole mess of things happened that some folks would call real wonders; but shoot, not everything could fit in this here book; fact is this book couldn't even hold a hundredth part of all the happenings over them twenty-five years with such a big crowd.
But lo and behold, there are records what tell the whole tale of this people; and a shorter, but truer story was spun by Nephi.
So I've jotted down my account of events based on what Nephi put down on them plates they called the plates of Nephi.
And here I am, makin' a record on plates I crafted with my own two hands.
And just so ya know, I go by the name of Mormon, named after the land of Mormon, where Alma set up the first church 'mongst the folks after they went astray.
Now, I'm a follower of Jesus Christ, the Son of God. He rustled me up to spread his teachings among the folks, so they could snag everlasting life.
Seems it just made good sense that I, doin' what God wants, should jot down the prayers from those holy ones who have passed on, fulfillin' 'em according to their faith, keepin' a record of what's happened here—
Yep, a little account of it all since Lehi hightailed it outta Jerusalem, right up to now.
So I’m throwing together my record from what them before me passed down, until this very time I’m livin’ in;
And next, I’m scribblin’ down what I’ve seen with my own peepers.
I know full well the record I’m keepin' is true and good; still, there’s a heap of things we just can’t put into words.
And now I’m done with my own chatter and will start tellin’ the tale of what came before me.
I’m Mormon, a straight descendant of Lehi. I’ve got plenty of reasons to give my thanks to God and my Savior Jesus Christ, that He brought our folks outta Jerusalem, (and no one knew it 'cept for Him and those He led out) and that He’s shared so much knowledge with me and my people for the salvation of our souls.
Sure as shootin’, He’s blessed the house of Jacob, and shown mercy on Joseph’s kin.
As long as Lehi's children keep His commandments, He’s gonna bless 'em and help 'em thrive just like He promised.
Indeed, He’ll surely bring back a remnant of Joseph’s seed to know the Lord their God once more.
And as sure as the Lord lives, He'll gather all the scattered remnant of Jacob’s seed from the four corners of the earth, rounding ‘em up from wherever they’ve been lost.
And just like He made a covenant with the whole house of Jacob, that covenant will be fulfilled in His own sweet time, bringing back all of Jacob’s household to the knowledge of what He’s promised.
Then they'll know their Redeemer, who is Jesus Christ, the Son of God; and they'll be rounded up from the four corners of the earth back to their own lands, from where they’ve wandered off; indeed, as the Lord lives, so shall it be. Amen.
