In the shadows, the voice of Christ hollers about the fallin’ of folks and towns due to their wrongdoings—He also claims His godly nature, declares that the old laws are done for, and invites folks to saddle up and come to Him for salvation. ‘Bout A.D. 34.
And it turned out that there was a voice echoing across the land, heard by all folks livin’ on this here earth, shoutin’:
Whoa, whoa, whoa to this crowd; whoa to the whole dang earth unless they clean up their act; 'cause the devil's laughin’, and his minions are celebratin’, 'cause of the slain young’uns of my kin; and it’s their wrongs and misdeeds that brought 'em to this fate!
Looky here, that mighty town Zarahemla, I set it ablaze with fire, and all the folks in it.
And look, that big ol’ town Moroni, I sunk it deep in the sea, and the folks there drowned like rats.
And see here, that town Moronihah, I buried it under a heap of dirt, and the folks there, too, to cover up their sins and their foul deeds from my sight, so the blood of the prophets and the faithful won’t call out to me no more against them.
And whaddaya know, the town of Gilgal, I made it sink, and the people there got buried right deep in the ground;
Yep, and the town of Onihah and all its folks, and the town of Mocum and their folks, and the town of Jerusalem and its people; I made waters rise up in their stead, to cover up their wicked ways from my eyes, so the blood of the prophets and saints won't call out to me no more against them.
And looky here, the towns of Gadiandi, Gadiomnah, Jacob, and Gimgimno, all these I sunk down, and I shaped hills and valleys where they used to be; and the folks there, I buried right low, to hide their wrongdoings from my sight, so the blood of the prophets and saints won’t keep calling out to me against them.
And behold, that big ol’ town Jacobugath, where King Jacob’s folks lived, I burnt it to the ground ‘cause of their sins and wicked ways, which outshone all the wrongs on this here earth, for their secret killings and shady dealings; it was them that disturbed the peace of my people and the law of the land; thus, I laid waste to them, so the blood of the prophets and saints wouldn’t rise up to me no more against ‘em.
And behold, the towns of Laman, Josh, Gad, and Kishkumen, I set them ablaze, and the people in ‘em, ‘cause they kicked out the prophets and stoned those I sent to warn ‘em about their wrongs and misdeeds.
And since they cast ‘em all out, leavin’ no good ones among 'em, I sent down fire and wiped ‘em out, so their vile deeds could be hidden from my sight, so the blood of the prophets and saints I sent won’t cry out from the ground against 'em.
And I reckon there’s been plenty of great ruin I’ve brought upon this land and this people, ‘cause of their wickedness and their abominations.
Oh, all you who’re still kickin’ ‘cause you’re a mite more righteous than them, won’t you turn back to me, and admit your wrongs, and change your ways, so I can heal ya?
Indeed, I’m tellin’ you, if you’ll come to me, you’ll have life everlasting. Lookie here, my arm of mercy is stretched out for you, and anyone who’ll come, I’ll take in; and blessed are those who come to me.
Looky here, I’m Jesus Christ, the Son of God. I made the heavens and the earth, and everything in ’em. I was with the Father from the very start. I’m in the Father, and the Father is in me; and through me, the Father has made His name shine.
I came to my own folks, and they didn’t take me in. And the old books about my coming have come to pass.
And as many as took me in, I’ve granted ‘em the privilege to be sons of God; and I’ll do the same for as many as believe in my name, for through me, redemption comes, and I’ve fulfilled the old law of Moses.
I am the light and the life of this here world. I’m the beginning and the end, Alpha and Omega.
And no more shall you offer up blood sacrifices to me; yep, your burnt offerings and all that will come to an end, for I’ll take none of your sacrifices nor your burnt offerings.
And what you oughta offer to me is a broken heart and a spirit that’s humble. And whoever comes to me with a broken heart and a humble spirit, I’ll baptize him with fire and the Holy Ghost, just like the Lamanites, ‘cause of their faith in me at their convertin’, were baptized with fire and the Holy Ghost, and they didn’t even know it.
Looky here, I’ve come to this world to bring salvation and save it from sin.
So, whoever repents and comes to me like a little child, I’ll take in, for such is the kingdom of God. Looky here, for them I laid down my life, and I took it back up again; so repent, and come to me, all you ends of the earth, and be saved.
