Well, lemme tell ya ‘bout the Nephites, their squabbles and spats, and all that fussin’. There’s also the prophecies from a bunch of holy folk, long before Jesus showed up, from the records of Helaman, who, by the way, was Helaman’s boy. And it’s all noted down by his young’uns too, goin’ all the way up to when Christ came. Oh, and a heap of Lamanites turned their ways ‘round too, which is a whole chapter in itself. It's about how they found their righteous way, while the Nephites were busy makin' a mess of things, all writ in the book of Helaman, and so on.
Now, Pahoran the second stepped up as chief judge but got himself murdered by Kishkumen. Then Pacumeni slid right into that judgment seat. Coriantumr rallied the Lamanite troops, took over Zarahemla, and took out Pacumeni. Moronihah turned the tables on 'em, beat the Lamanites, took back Zarahemla, and then Coriantumr met his end. We're talkin' ‘bout the years 'round 52 to 50 B.C.
Now y’all listen close, ‘cause right at the start of the big fortieth year of them judges runnin’ things over the Nephites, trouble started brewin’ among 'em Nephites.
See, ol’ Pahoran had passed on, shuffled off this mortal coil; so a big ol’ fuss broke out over who’d take the judgment seat among Pahoran’s kin.
Now lemme tell ya who was fussin’ over that seat: Pahoran, Paanchi, and Pacumeni.
Now these fellas ain't the only sons of Pahoran, 'cause he had a whole bunch; but they were the ones causin’ a ruckus about that seat, stirrin' up three factions among the folks.
But wouldn’t ya know it, the people picked Pahoran to be chief judge and governor over Nephi’s folk.
Then Pacumeni saw he weren’t gonna get that judgment seat, so he joined the crowd’s pick.
But lemme tell ya, Paanchi and his supporters were fit to be tied; they was mighty mad and thought ‘bout stirrin’ up trouble against their own kin.
Just as he was bout to set that trouble in motion, he got nabbed, put on trial by the folks, and sentenced to kick the bucket 'cause he tried to spark a rebellion and mess with the people’s freedom.
Now those folks wanting Paanchi as their governor saw he was facing the gallows and got all riled up. So they sent Kishkumen over to the judgment seat of Pahoran, and he straight-up murdered Pahoran while he was sittin’ there.
Pahoran’s servants chased after him, but shoot, Kishkumen was so quick on his feet, they couldn’t catch up.
He got back to his folks, and they all took a secret oath together, swearing on their Maker that they wouldn’t spill the beans about how Kishkumen offed Pahoran.
So, Kishkumen kinda disappeared among the Nephites, hidin’ himself right after he did the deed. Him and his crew blended into the crowd so well that folks couldn’t pin ‘em down; but any of ‘em they caught got sentenced to die.
Now Pacumeni got himself put in charge, just like the people wanted, takin’ up where his brother Pahoran left off, and all that went down in the fortieth year of them judges' rule—it was all wrapped up nice like.
Now in the forty-first year of the judges, the Lamanites got themselves a could-be endless army, armed to the teeth with swords, cimeters, bows, arrows, head-plates, breastplates, and all kinds of shields.
They headed on down again to throw down against the Nephites, led by a fella named Coriantumr, who was a descendant of Zarahemla and was a bit of a turncoat among the Nephites, a big ol’ strong dude he was.
So the Lamanite king, named Tubaloth, who was Ammoron’s son, thought Coriantumr, bein’ such a big shot, could handle the Nephites and give ‘em the old one-two with his brawn and smarts, so he sent him out to take charge of the Lamanites.
He kinda ticked ‘em off, gathered ‘em together, and named Coriantumr head honcho, settin’ them to march down to Zarahemla to have at it with the Nephites.
Now with all that fussin’ and botherin’ in the government, they didn’t keep watch good-like over Zarahemla; figured them Lamanites wouldn’t dare come right into the heart of their lands to have a go at that big city.
But here comes Coriantumr, marchin’ out front with his whole ol’ crowd, zoomin’ right on down to the folks in the city, and their quick marchin’ caught them Nephites with their pants down.
So Coriantumr chopped down them watchmen at the city gates and stormed right in with his whole crew, takin’ out anyone who resisted, and before you knew it, they claimed the entire city.
Now Pacumeni, chief judge that he was, hightailed it away from Coriantumr right up to the city walls. And wouldn’t ya know it, Coriantumr smashed him against the wall and that was that for Pacumeni.
After Coriantumr saw he had Zarahemla under his thumb, watchin’ the Nephites run and get mowed down, tossed in jail, and realized he held the strongest spot in the whole land, his heart swelled with bravery like he was about to take on the whole dang place.
No sir, he didn’t stick around in Zarahemla, but marched on with a big ol’ army straight towards Bountiful, lookin’ to slice through the northern parts of the land with his sword.
Figured their best folks were sittin’ in the middle of the land, so he didn’t give ‘em a chance to come together save for a few folks, and that’s how they snuck up on ’em and cut ‘em down to the ground.
But y’know, Coriantumr marchin’ through the middle of the land gave Moronihah an edge, despite all those Nephites that got taken out.
See, Moronihah thought them Lamanites wouldn’t dare step into the center of the land but would stick to their usual hit-and-run attacks on the cities ringin’ the outskirts. So he had his strong forces holdin’ the borders tight.
But the Lamanites weren’t scared off like he hoped; they came pourin’ into the center, snatched up the capital city Zarahemla, and was marchin’ through the best parts of the land, slayin’ folks left and right—men, women, and children—takmin’ over plenty of cities and strongholds.
When Moronihah got wind of all this, he quickly sent Lehi out with a force to head ’em off before they hit Bountiful.
And that’s just what he done; he met them before they could reach Bountiful and gave ‘em a good ol’ fight, makin’ ‘em turn tail back towards Zarahemla.
Then Moronihah caught up with ‘em again as they was retreatin’, battling it out so fierce it turned into a downright bloody mess, with heaps falling, includin’ Coriantumr himself.
Now, I reckon the Lamanites found themselves in a pickle, with no way to go back north or south, east or west, ‘cause the Nephites had ‘em boxed in from every direction.
And that’s how Coriantumr got the Lamanites right in the thick of the Nephites, and with him goin’ down, the Lamanites gave themselves up to the Nephites.
So, Moronihah took back control of Zarahemla again and made sure the captured Lamanites could head outta the land safe and sound.
And there y'go, that wrapped up the forty-first year of the judges' rule.
