Well, it so happened that there got to be a big ol' mess among the folks, to the point they split off in all sorts of directions, leavin' poor Nephi standin' there all by his lonesome right in the middle of 'em. 
So Nephi shuffled on back to his own place, thinkin’ real hard ‘bout all them things the Lord had shown him. 
As he was sittin' there thinkin' — feelin' mighty low 'bout the wickedness of the Nephites, all their sneaky deeds, the murderin', and plunderin', and just plain ol' sin — all of a sudden, a voice came to him sayin': 
"Bless your heart, Nephi, for all that you've done; I been watchin' ya work your tail off, spreadin' the word I gave ya to this here people. And you ain't been scared of 'em, nor tryin’ to save your own neck, but you been searchin' for my will and keepin' my commandments."
"Now listen here, cause you’ve poured yourself into this with all you've got, I'm fixin' to bless ya forever; I’ll make ya strong in your words and your deeds, in faith and your works; yep, even all things shall be done for you according to your word, since you won’t go askin’ for nothin’ that ain't in line with my will."
"You listen real close, you're Nephi, and I’m God. I’m tellin’ ya right now in front of all my angels, you'll have power over this here people, and you’ll strike the earth with famine, disease, and destruction, 'cause of the wickedness in 'em."
"Here’s the deal, I'm givin' ya power, so whatever you seal down here on earth, it'll be sealed up there in heaven; and whatever you loose down here, it will be loosed up there, and that way you’ll have power among the folks."
"And if you tell this temple to split in two, it’s gonna happen."
"And if you order this mountain to tumble down and be smooth, it’ll sure enough happen."
"And looky here, if you say God’s gonna smite this people, just wait and see, that’s gonna come to pass."
"Now I'm tellin' you, go on and tell this people what the Lord God, the Almighty, says: If y’all don’t repent, you gonna be smitten till there ain't nothin' left."
And wouldn’t ya know it, when the Lord said all this to Nephi, he just stopped in his tracks and didn’t head home, but turned right back to the crowd that was scattered all over the land, startin' to tell ‘em what the Lord had revealed about their destruction if they didn’t repent. 
Now despite that big ol’ miracle Nephi pulled off tellin' ‘em ‘bout the chief judge kickin' the bucket, they just wouldn't listen, hardenin’ their hearts against the Lord's words.
So Nephi went on and told ‘em again what the Lord had to say, sayin': "You gotta repent, or else, the Lord says, you’ll be smitten till there's nothin' left."
Well, when Nephi finished tellin' ‘em that, they still wouldn’t soften up, and instead they reviled him and tried to grab him to throw him in the slammer.
But looky here, the power of God was right there with him, and they couldn't lay a finger on him to haul him off, ‘cause the Spirit took him and whisked him away from right in the middle of ‘em.
And it went down that he just kept wanderin’ in the Spirit, from crowd to crowd, tellin’ the word of God, till he'd shared it with all of ‘em or sent it out among every single soul.
And they just wouldn’t listen to what he had to say; before long, there was a whole lotta fussin’ goin’ on, and they started fightin’ amongst themselves, even takin’ each other out with swords.
And that’s how the seventy-first year of the judges over the Nephites wrapped up.
