Folks sure are wobbly and foolish as a three-legged cow and quick to get up to no good—The Lord gives a good ol' whoopin’ to His people—Ain't nothin’ but a collection of dust compared to the might of God—On judgment day, folks gonna get either forever life or forever suffering. 'Bout 6 B.C.
And we can sure see how fickle and false the hearts of folks are; ya see, the Lord in His boundless goodness blesses those who trust in Him.
Yup, and you know what? Right when He’s showering blessings on His people—with their crops growin', their sheep bleatin' like crazy, and a whole heap of gold and silver, and all sorts of shiny stuff—He saves their skins and rescues 'em from their enemies; He even softens the hearts of them foes so they ain't feeling feisty at all; and in the end, He’s just lookin’ out for the good and happiness of His people—then, somehow, that's when they turn hard-headed, forgettin' their Lord, and just stompin' on the Holy One—yep, it's all 'cause things are too easy for 'em and they got it made.
And that’s how we see, unless the Lord puts 'em through some rough patches—like death and fear and hunger, and all kinds of sickness—they ain't gonna remember Him.
Oh, ain't it just crazy how foolish, vain, evil, devilish, and quick folks are to do bad things, and yet so slow to do good? Yep, how fast they run to listen to the evil one, settin' their hearts on all them worthless things of this world!
Sure 'nuff, they get all puffed up with pride real quick; they boast and carry on, doin’ all manner of mischief; but boy, they sure do take their sweet time rememberin' the Lord their God and listenin’ to His advice, yeah, slow as molasses when it comes to walkin' in wisdom’s ways!
Looky here, they don’t want the Lord their God, the one who made 'em, to be their boss; even with all His goodness and mercy, they just scoff at His counsel and refuse to let Him lead 'em.
Oh, how downright pitiful the nothingness of folks is; yep, they ain't even worth a grain of dirt from the ground.
'Cause see here, the dust of the earth moves all around, splitting apart when our great and everlasting God gives the order.
Uh-huh, at His voice, them hills and mountains are shakin’ and quakin’.
And with just the power of His voice, they break apart and smooth out, like some fancy valley.
Yeah, by the command of His voice, the whole earth gets to rockin';
And when He speaks, the very foundations sway like a boat in a storm.
And if He tells the earth—Move—it sure does move.
And if He says—You better go back and stretch out the day for a good long while—it gets done;
That’s how it goes, according to His word the earth goes back, and it looks to us like the sun is sittin' still; and yep, that’s just how it is; 'cause it's the earth doing the moving, not the sun.
And if He says to them deep waters—Dry up—it is as good as done.
If He tells that mountain—Get up, come over here and bury that city—ya betcha, it happens.
And if a fella buries some treasure in the ground, and the Lord says—Let it be cursed, 'cause of what that fella did—it’ll be cursed, sure enough.
If the Lord says—You be cursed, and ain't no one gonna find you from now on and forever—yep, no one gets near it ever again.
And if the Lord tells a man—'Cause of your sins, you gonna be cursed forever—it'll surely go down like that.
And if the Lord says—Because of your sins, you ain't gonna be in my presence no more—it’s gonna be done.
And woe to the fella on whom He says that; he gonna be in trouble for doing wrong, and he ain't gonna be saved; that’s why, for folks to have any hope, repentance got to be announced.
So, blessed are they who will turn and listen to the voice of the Lord their God; 'cause those are the ones who will find salvation.
And may God bless that, in His endless goodness, folks might come to repentance and do good works, so they can find their way back to grace for grace, for what they’ve done.
And I hope all men might find salvation. But we hear tell that on that big day, some folks gonna be sent away, yeah, cast off from the Lord’s presence;
Yup, they gonna be stuck in a state of endless misery, fulfillin' what it says: Those who done good gonna get everlasting life; and those who done evil gonna get everlasting punishment. And that's the way it is. Amen.
