Well now, let me tell ya 'bout this here prophecy from that Samuel fella, the Lamanite, speakin' to the Nephites. It covers all them chapters up to fifteen.
So, in that eighty-sixth year, them Nephites just keep on bein’ wicked, I reckon, real wicked, while the Lamanites are stickin' to the good Lord’s commandments, just like Moses said to do.
Well, lo and behold, this Samuel—he’s a Lamanite—he waltzed into Zarahemla and started preachin’ to the folks. He went on preachin’ for days, callin’ folks to repent, but they booted him outta there, and he was fixin’ to head back home.
But then the good Lord hollered at him, told him to turn back around and prophesy again what was on his mind.
So they wouldn’t let him in the city, y’know? So he climbed up on the wall and waved his arms, shoutin’ real loud, preachin’ whatever the Lord laid on his heart.
He told ‘em: “Y’all listen here, I’m Samuel, a Lamanite, speakin’ what the Lord put in my heart. And let me tell ya, the sword of justice is hangin’ over y’all, ain’t gonna be four hundred years passin’ 'fore it falls.”
Yeah, heavy destruction’s comin’ your way, and it’s sure as shootin’. Ain’t nothin’ gonna save y’all except repentin’ and puttin’ your faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, who’s comin’ to the world, sufferin' a whole lot, and gonna get killed for y’all.
And lo and behold, an angel from the Lord told me all this good news, makin’ my heart sing. I was sent to share it with you, too, so y’all could feel that joy, but, shoot, y’all wouldn’t take me in.
So the Lord says this: Since y’all got hard hearts, if y’all don’t repent, I’m takin’ away my word from ya and pullin’ back my Spirit, and I’m done puttin’ up with y’all, gonna turn your own folks against ya.
Ain't gonna be four hundred years goin’ by without me givin’ you a good whoppin’—yeah, I’m fixin’ to visit you with the sword, famine, and sickness.
Yup, I'm comin’ down in my fierce anger, and there’s gonna be some from the fourth generation of your enemies seein’ your full destruction comin’ unless you turn back, says the Lord; and that fourth generation will witness your ruin.
But if y’all would just repent and turn back to the Lord your God, I’ll take my anger back, says the Lord; and blessed be them that do turn back to me, but woe be to those who don’t.
Oh, woe to this big ol’ city of Zarahemla, ’cause it’s only saved thanks to the good folks in it; I tell ya, it ain’t lookin’ good, 'cause it seems like a whole mess of people are hardenin’ their hearts against me, says the Lord.
But blessed are the ones who do repent, 'cause I’ll spare ‘em. But if it weren’t for the righteous folks here in this big city, I’d rain down fire from the sky to torch it.
But don’t forget, it's for the righteous folks’ sake that it's bein’ spared. But time’s a-comin’, the Lord says, when y’all throw the good folks out, then you’ll be ripe for ruin; woe unto this city for all the wickedness and evil inside it.
And woe be to Gideon too, 'cause of all that wickedness goin’ on.
And woe onto every city ‘round here full of Nephites, because of all that evil and sin.
Now listen up, a curse is comin’ on this land, says the Lord of Hosts, 'cause of all them folks sittin’ on this land, what with all their iniquities and wrongdoings.
And the Lord of Hosts, our true and mighty God, says it’ll be a time when folks try to stash their treasures in the ground, but they ain’t gonna find ‘em again, ‘cause the land’s a-cursed, ‘cept for the good folks who hide it with the Lord.
Yup, I want folks to keep their treasures hidden with me; and cursed be those who don't do it right! Ain't nobody be hidin’ treasures with me but the righteous; if you ain't, you’re cursed, and so’s your treasure, and no one’s gonna get it back ‘cause of the land’s curse.
Then there’s gonna come a day when folks try to hoard their riches, thinkin’ they’re safe, but when they get scared and run from their enemies, they ain’t gonna be able to hold onto ‘em; they gon’ be cursed with their treasures because they didn’t hide ‘em with me, and that day, they's gonna get smitten, says the Lord.
Now listen, you folks in this great city, pay attention to what I'm tellin’ ya, ya hear? The Lord says you’re cursed 'cause of your wealth, and your riches are cursed too, ‘cause you’ve set your hearts on ‘em and ain't payed no mind to the words of the one who gave ‘em to ya.
You got forgettin' the Lord your God who blessed ya, always thinkin’ ‘bout your riches without givin’ thanks to Him; your hearts ain't drawn to Him, but swelled with pride, boastin’, envy, strife, mean-spiritedness, persecutions, and killings, all kinds of wickedness.
That’s why the Lord's laid a curse on this land and your treasures, all ‘cause of your sins.
Yup, woe to you folks, on account of this time we’re in, throwin’ out the prophets, mockin’ ‘em, throwin’ stones, killin’ ‘em, and doin’ all sorts of wrong to ‘em, just like they did back in the day.
And when you talk, you say, “If we’d been around in the days of our ancestors, we wouldn’t have done all that to the prophets; we wouldn’t have stoned ‘em or tossed ‘em out.”
But let me tell ya, you’re doin’ worse! Cause the Lord’s alive, if a prophet walks in here and tells ya the word from the Lord, callin’ out your sins, you get all riled up and toss him out, tryin’ to figure out how to destroy him; yeah, you call him a false prophet, a sinner, a devil, just ‘cause he’s callin’ you out on your bad deeds.
But let me tell ya, if somebody comes around sayin’, “Do this, you ain't done no wrong; do that, and you’ll be alright,” he's gonna get a warm welcome; sayin’, “Oh go on, follow your hearts and eyes, do whattya want”—if he says that, you’ll take him right in, and call him a prophet.
Yeah, you’ll lift him up, give him your stuff, spill your gold and silver on him, dress him in fancy clothes; and 'cause he’s showerin’ you with sweet talk, sayin’ all’s well, you won’t have a bad word to say about him.
Oh, you wicked folks, you perverse bunch; you hard-headed, stiff-necked people, how long you think the Lord’s gonna put up with ya? How long will you let yourselves be led by blind fools? How long will you pick darkness over light?
The Lord’s anger is already flared up against ya; that’s the truth—he’s cursed the land ‘cause of your wrongdoings.
And the time’s comin’ when He’ll curse your riches, makin’ ‘em all slippery-like, so ya can’t hold onto 'em; and when you’re poor, you just won’t be able to keep ‘em.
When you’re broke, you’ll howl to the Lord; but it’ll be like shoutin’ in the wind ‘cause your desolation’s already hit, and your doom is on its way; and you’ll cry and moan that day, says the Lord of Hosts. And you’ll bemoan, sayin’:
“Oh, if only I’d repented! If I hadn’t killed the prophets, stoned ‘em, and tossed ‘em out! Yeah, you’ll say that day: “Oh, if we had just remembered the Lord our God when He blessed us with our wealth, then it wouldn’t have slipped away like it did; ‘cause now, our riches are gone.”
Look at this, we set down a tool, and poof, it’s gone by mornin’; swords we’ve needed for fightin’ just up and vanished when we wanted ‘em.
Yeah, we’ve hid our treasures, but they’ve just slipped away 'cause the land’s cursed.
If only we’d repented back when the Lord spoke to us; the land’s cursed, everything’s slippin’ away, and we just can’t hold onto nothin’.
Look around, we’re swarmed by demons, surrounded by angels of the one who’s tryin’ to put an end to our souls. Our sins are heavy, Lord, can’t ya turn your anger back from us? That’ll be the words you’ll speak in them days.
But I’m tellin’ ya, your time of probation’s run out; you’ve dragged your feet on the day of salvation 'til it’s way too late, and your ruin’s a-comin’; you’ve been searchin’ your whole lives for what you just can’t have, lookin’ for happiness in doin’ wrong, which just ain’t the way of the good and right.
Oh, you people of the land, why can’t ya hear what I’m sayin’? I’m prayin’ the Lord’s anger gets pulled back from ya, and that y’all would make a turn and get saved.
