Well now, it did come to pass that Samuel, that Lamanite fella, he went and prophesied a heap more stuff that ain't writ down nowhere.
Now pay attention, he said to 'em: Listen up, I’m givin’ y’all a sign; five years more and guess what? The Son of God’s comin’ to save all them who put their faith in His name.
And lemme tell ya, this is gonna be a big ol’ sign at the time he shows up; ya see, there’ll be great lights up in the heavens, so much so that the night before he arrives won’t have a lick of darkness, it’s gonna feel like daybreak to folks.
So, mark this down, there'll be one day followed by a night and then another day, like it’s just one long day and there ain't no night; and this here’s gonna be a sign for ya; you’ll know when the sun rises and when it sets; so they'll be sure as shootin’ that there’s two days and a night, but that night ain’t gonna be dark; and it’ll be the night before he’s born.
And now, lo and behold, a brand new star's gonna pop up, one like you ain't ever laid eyes on; this too’s gonna be a sign for ya.
Now, hold on, this ain't all; there’ll be a whole mess of signs and wonders in the sky.
And it’s gonna happen that y’all will be jaw-dropped and astonished, to the point that you'll just fall down to the ground.
And it’s gonna be that whoever believes in the Son of God, they’re gonna have life everlasting.
Now listen, the Lord’s given me a command through His angel to come tell y’all all this; yep, He’s asked me to prophesy these things to ya; and He told me: Shout out to these folks, turn around and get ready for the Lord.
And now, since I’m a Lamanite and I’m just spoutin’ what the Lord’s told me, and since it don’t sit right with ya, y’all are all riled up with me and want to throw me out.
You’ll hear my words, ‘cause I came up here on the walls of this town just so y’all could know ‘bout the judgments of God that’re comin’ your way ‘cause of your sins, and also so you’d understand what it takes to repent;
And you oughta know ‘bout the coming of Jesus Christ, that’s the Son of God, the Father of heaven and earth, the Maker of everything from the very start; and you oughta know the signs when He’s comin’, so ya can put your faith in His name.
And if you put your faith in His name, y’all gonna turn away from your sins, so ya can be freed from ‘em ‘cause of His goodness.
And lo and behold, here’s another sign I’m givin’ ya, yep, a sign of His death.
‘Cause let me tell ya, He’s gotta die for salvation to roll in; yep, it’s gotta happen for the resurrection of the dead, so folks can get back into the presence of the Lord.
Sure ‘nuff, this death’s what’s gonna lead to the resurrection, and it’s gonna redeem all of mankind from the first death—that spiritual death; ‘cause all folks, ‘cause of Adam’s fall, get cut off from the Lord, considered dead, both in this world and the next.
But looky here, the resurrection through Christ is what’s gonna redeem everyone, even all of mankind, and bring ‘em back to the Lord.
Yep, and it’s gonna lead folks to repent, so that whoever turns around won’t get chopped down and thrown into the fire; but whoever don’t turn around, well, they’ll be chopped down and thrown into the fire, and then they’ll face that spiritual death again, yep, a second death, ‘cause they get cut off again from doin’ what’s right.
So y’all better repent, repent, ‘less you know what to do and don’t do it—then you’re gonna bring that second death upon yourselves.
But now, just remember, like I told ya before about another sign, a sign of His death, in that day when He takes His last breath, the sun’s gonna get dark and won’t shine no more; and the moon and stars, they ain’t gonna shine either; there’ll be no light on this here land, from the moment He dies, for three whole days, til He rises up from the dead.
Sure as shootin’, when He gives up the ghost, there’s gonna be thunder and lightenin’ for many hours, and the earth is gonna shake and shudder; and the rocks, which y’all know are solid now, are gonna get busted up;
Yep, they’ll split in two, and from then on, they’ll be found all cracked up and in pieces all over the face of the earth, both above and below.
And look, there’s gonna be mighty tempests, and loads of mountains are gonna be laid down flat, turnin’ into valleys, and there'll be places now called valleys that’ll rise up to be mountains, tall as can be.
And plenty of roads will get torn up, and many towns are gonna be left in ruins.
And a whole lotta graves will pop open, and let out many of their dead; and a bunch of saints are gonna show up to folks.
And behold, the angel spoke to me, he told me there'd be thunder and lightenin’ for many hours.
And he said to me that while all the thunder and lightning was goin’ on, and them tempests, that’s when darkness would cover the whole earth for three days.
And the angel told me that many folks will see greater things than these, so they might believe that these signs and wonders are gonna happen across this whole land, so there won’t be no reason for folks to doubt—
And it’s all so that whoever wants to believe can be saved, and if folks choose not to believe, then just judgment’s gonna come down on ‘em; and if they’re condemned, they’re only bringin’ it upon themselves.
And now just remember, listen up, my brothers, that whoever’s lost is lost for their own reasons; and whoever does wrong is doin’ it to themselves; ‘cause ya see, you’re free; you can make your own choices; God’s given ya that knowledge and made ya free.
He’s laid it out so you’d know good from bad, and given you the chance to choose life or death; you can do good and get back to what’s good, or have what’s good come back to ya; or you can do wrong and have all that evil come back around to ya.
