Well now, lemme tell ya, the Good Lord gave the Nephites a good talkin' to 'cause He loved 'em—Them Lamanites who’ve turned over a new leaf sure are solid and steadfast in their faith—The Lord's gonna show mercy to the Lamanites in the days to come. 'Bout 6 B.C. 
Now listen up, my dear brothers, I gotta tell ya, if ya don’t shape up and repent, yer houses gonna be left empty and all desolate like. 
Shoot, if ya don’t turn things around, yer women will have plenty to weep 'bout when they’re tryin’ to nurse them babies; ‘cause when the time comes to run, ain’t gon' be no safe place for ya; and oh boy, woe to them with little ones, they’ll be weighed down and can’t run; so they gonna get trampled and left to meet their end. 
Yeah, woe be to this lot known as the Nephites unless they get it together, even when they spot all them signs and miracles that pop up; you see, they been a chosen folks of the Lord; yep, the Nephites are ones He’s got a soft spot for, and He’s also given 'em a good whippin’ when they stepped outta line; yup, during their goofy times, He’s given 'em a proper chastisin' 'cause He truly cares for 'em. 
But wouldn’t ya know it, my brothers, them Lamanites, He ain’t got much love for 'em ‘cause they keep doin’ bad stuff day in and day out, all ‘cause of their daddies’ bad ways. But hey, salvation’s come to ‘em thanks to the Nephites preachin’ the good word; and that’s why the Lord’s been lettin’ ‘em stick around a bit longer. 
Now, I want ya to see that most of 'em are struttin' down the right path, and they’re watchin' their steps real careful-like before God, keepin' to His commandments and laws, stickin’ to what Moses laid down. 
Yep, I’m tellin’ ya, most of 'em are doin’ just that, bustin’ their tails to bring the rest of their kin to know the truth; that’s why there’s a good bunch joinin’ their ranks every day. 
And don’t ya know, y’all have seen it with yer own eyes, how many of 'em have come ‘round to learnin’ the truth, and got wise to the wicked ways of their daddies, and are led to believe in them holy scriptures, and the prophecies from the holy prophets, which gets ‘em to believe in the Lord, and to repent, and that faith and repentance turns their hearts ‘round— 
So, as many of ‘em who have come to this, y’all know real well they’re solid and steady in their faith, and in what’s set ‘em free. 
And you also know they’ve laid down their war weapons, and they’re afraid to pick ‘em up again, fearin' they might slip up; shoot, you can see they’re scared of sin—for they’d rather take a beatin’ and get taken out by their enemies than lift a sword against 'em, all ‘cause of their faith in Christ. 
And now, 'cause they’re so steadfast in what they believe in, for bein’ firm when they finally see the light, behold, the Lord’s gonna bless ‘em and let ‘em stick around longer, even with their mess-ups— 
Yeah, even if they should start slippin’ into doubt, the Lord’s gonna let ‘em stick around, till the time comes that our daddies talked about, and also what the prophet Zenos mentioned, and plenty of other prophets, ‘bout bringin’ our folks, the Lamanites, back to the truth— 
I’m tellin’ ya, in the later days, the Lord’s promises are gonna reach out to our brothers, the Lamanites; and even with all the troubles they gonna face, and bein’ tossed around and hunted like dogs, and beaten and spread all over the place with nowhere safe to go, the Lord’s gonna be merciful to ‘em. 
And this here’s what was prophesied, that they’ll come back to true knowledge, which is knowin’ their Redeemer, and their real good shepherd, and get counted among His sheep. 
So I reckon it’s gonna be better for ‘em than for y’all if ya don’t repent. 
‘Cause lemme tell ya, if them mighty deeds had been shown to 'em like they been shown to ya, those who’ve fallen into doubt ‘cause of their daddies’ traditions, you know they wouldn’t’ve fallen back into doubt again. 
So the Lord says: I ain’t gonna wipe ‘em out completely, but one day, when I see fit, they gonna come back to me, says the Lord. 
And now listen up, says the Lord, ‘bout the Nephites: If they don’t turn from their ways and do what I say, I’ll wipe ‘em out completely, says the Lord, ‘cause of their doubt, in spite of all the great things I done for 'em; and sure as the Lord lives, these things is gonna happen, says the Lord.
