Well now, it happened that a heap o' folks heard ol' Samuel, the Lamanite, speakin' up on them city walls. And them that believed what he was sayin' got themselves on over to Nephi; when they found him, they fessed up 'bout their wrongdoings and didn't hold back none, just wantin' to get baptized 'fore the Lord.
But let me tell ya, those who didn’t buy what Samuel was sellin’ got real mad at him; they started throwin' stones and shootin' arrows at him while he stood up there on the wall. But lemme tell ya, the Lord's Spirit was with that feller, so they couldn't hit him with a single stone or arrow.
Now when they figured out they couldn't nick him with none of that, a whole lot more folks came 'round to believe what he was sayin', and they skedaddled off to Nephi to get baptized.
Well, Nephi was busy baptizin', speakin' prophecies, and preachin' too, shoutin' for folks to repent, showin' off signs and wonders, makin' miracles happen among the people, so they'd know the big man, Christ, was fixin' to show up real soon—
He was spillin' the beans on things comin' up, lettin' them know that when it happened, they'd remember he had told 'em beforehand, all so they’d believe; thus, those who put their faith in Samuel's words went on over to be baptized, come in a-pourin' out their hearts confessin’ their sins.
But most folks didn’t reckon Samuel’s words were worth a lick; so when they saw their stones and arrows wouldn't do a thing, they hollered for their captains, sayin': “Seize that feller and tie him down, for he’s possessed; and 'cause of that devil's power he's got, we can't hit him with our stones nor our arrows; so take him and bind him up, send him off.”
And as they made a move to grab hold of him, he just flung himself down from that wall and bolted off to his own place, preachin' and prophesyin' to his own folks.
And I’ll tell ya what, after that, we never heard tell of him again among the Nephites, and that’s how the folks were doin' things.
So that wrapped up the eighty-sixth year of them judges rule over the Nephites.
And that also finished out the eighty-seventh year of their judges, with most of the folks stuck in their pride and wicked ways, while a smaller group was tryin' to live right before God.
And likewise, that was the case in the eighty-eighth year of them judges.
Now there wasn’t much change in the folks' doin's, 'cept they got even more stubborn in wickedness, goin' further astray from God’s commandments in the eighty-ninth year of them judges.
But let me tell ya, when the ninetieth year rolled around, there were a whole mess of signs thrown at the people, with wonders in the mix; and the prophets’ words started comin’ true.
And angels dropped down to see some wise folks, tellin' them the good news that'd fill their hearts with joy; so right then, the scriptures were kickin’ in.
Still, the people got hard-hearted, ‘cept for the most faithful among 'em, both Nephites and Lamanites, leanin' on their own strength and smarts, sayin':
"Maybe they guessed a few things right among all those; but lookie here, we know all these grand and miraculous deeds ain't gonna happen, nothin' like what they been talkin' 'bout."
And they started arguin' and squabblin' amongst themselves, sayin':
"It don't make no sense that a Christ could show up; if he's really the Son of God, the one who runs heaven and earth, then why ain't he showin' his face to us like he does to them folks over in Jerusalem?"
“Yeah, why ain't he puttin' in an appearance here as much as over there in Jerusalem?”
But y’know, they figured that was just some wicked tradition passed down from their folks to keep ‘em thinkin' some big fancy thing was gonna happen, just not here, but way off yonder in a place they don’t even know; so they just kept us in the dark, since we ain't seein' with our own eyes that it's real.
And they believed that by the tricky and mysterious ways o' the devil, some big mystery would work out that we just couldn't wrap our heads 'round, keepin’ us servin' their words, always lookin’ to ‘em to teach us the gospel; and if we let that happen, they’d keep us in ignorance till the end of our days.
Now, a whole lot more nonsense was floatin’ in their heads, real foolish and vain, and it made ‘em all stirred up, ‘cause Satan was at it again, whisperin' and causin' trouble all over the land, makin' 'em harden their hearts against the good stuff and what was yet to come.
And even with all the signs and wonders the Lord was performin’ among His people, and the miracles they pulled off, ol’ Satan had a strong grip on their hearts across the whole land.
So that’s how the ninetieth year wrapped up in the saga of them judges over the Nephites.
And that also brought to a close the book of Helaman, as it’s recorded by Helaman and his kin.
