Helaman, the son of Helaman, takes the top judge spot—Gadianton’s leadin’ ‘em rowdy folks known as Kishkumen—Helaman’s servant takes out Kishkumen, and the gang of Gadianton high-tails it into the wild.
Well, it was in the forty-second year of them judges sittin’ pretty, after Moronihah had patched things up ‘tween the Nephites and the Lamanites, and wouldn’t ya know it, there wasn’t nobody to fill that judgment seat; so folks started fussin’ again over who oughta take it.
Then along comes Helaman, son of Helaman, and folks picked him to take that judgment seat, just by what they all said.
But hold on, Kishkumen, the feller who put Pahoran six feet under, was layin’ in wait to do the same to Helaman; and he had his crew backin’ him up, all havin’ made a secret vow that no one would spill the beans on their dirty deeds.
Now there was this fella named Gadianton, who was real slick with his words, and just as good at the whole sneaky business of killin’ and thievin’; so, sure enough, he ended up bein’ the head honcho of Kishkumen’s crew.
So he sweet-talked ‘em, and even Kishkumen, sayin’ that if they’d make him the judge, he’d let ‘em have all kinds of power and authority; that’s how Kishkumen got himself all twisted up in a plan to ice Helaman.
As he was stridin’ toward that judgment seat to take Helaman out, one of Helaman's servants, who had been out and about at night, got wind of what them rascals were schemin’ against Helaman—disguised and all.
Then he bumped into Kishkumen and gave him a signal; so Kishkumen let slip what he was up to, wantin’ to be led to that judgment seat so he could go ahead and do Helaman in.
And once Helaman’s servant got the lowdown on what all Kishkumen was plannin’—that it was all about murderin’ and robbin’ to grab some power—he told Kishkumen: Let’s head on over to that judgment seat.
Now, Kishkumen was mighty pleased with this idea, thinkin’ he was gonna get his way; but lo and behold, as they were makin’ their way to that judgment seat, the servant of Helaman put a knife right in Kishkumen’s heart, and he dropped dead without so much as a whimper. Then he took off runnin’ to tell Helaman all he’d seen and done.
So Helaman sent word out to catch them robbin’ and killin’ rascals so they could get what was comin’ to ‘em under the law.
But here’s the thing, when Gadianton found out Kishkumen didn’t come back, he got real uneasy thinkin’ he might meet the same fate; so he told his gang to stick close. They made a run for it outta town, takin’ a sneaky route into the wilderness; and when Helaman sent out searchin’ parties, they were nowhere to be found.
And there’ll be more talkin’ ‘bout Gadianton later on. And thus wrapped up the forty-second year of them judges holdin’ court over the Nephi folks.
Now, listen here, by the end of this little tale, you’ll see that this Gadianton surely did cause a mess, yeah, nearly wiped out the whole Nephi crowd.
And don’t get it twisted, I ain't talkin’ ‘bout the end of the book of Helaman, but the end of the book of Nephi, where I pulled all this account I’ve written.
