Well, let me tell ya, in the fifty-fourth year, things got all kinds of messy in the church, and folks were squabblin’ like cats in a sack, causing a heap of bloodshed.
So, the troublemakers got taken out and kicked outta the land, and they made their way to the king of the Lamanites.
Next thing ya know, they were tryin’ their darndest to rile up the Lamanites to go to war against the Nephites; but shoot, the Lamanites were so scared they wouldn’t even listen to those dissenters.
Then in the fifty-sixth year, those dissenters went up to the Lamanites, and managed to get those folks all riled up against the Nephites; they spent the whole year gearin’ up for a fight.
In the fifty-seventh year, they came at the Nephites ready for battle, and boy, did all hell break loose; come fifty-eight, they took over the land of Zarahemla, and all the surrounding areas, all the way to Bountiful.
Well, the Nephites and Moronihah’s folks got pushed right back into Bountiful;
And there they set up defenses against the Lamanites, stretchin’ from the west sea to the east; it was a good day's walk for a Nephite, on that line they fortified to guard their northern territory.
So it was that them dissenters from the Nephites, with a big ol’ army of Lamanites, took over just about all the Nephite territory down south. And all this went down in the fifty-eighth and ninth years of the judges' rule.
Then in the sixtieth year of the judges’ reign, Moronihah and his armies managed to take back a bunch of land; yep, they got back several towns that had been snatched up by the Lamanites.
And it came to be in the sixty-first year, they even managed to get back half of everything they lost.
Now, all this mighty loss for the Nephites, and the big ol’ bloodbath among ‘em, wouldn’t have happened if it weren’t for their own wicked ways and all that foul stuff they was up to; yep, it was even among those who claimed to be part of God’s church.
And it was their pride, their excessive riches that got ‘em, and their mistreating the poor folks, holdin’ back food from the hungry, clothes from the needy, slappin’ their humble brothers, makin’ fun of what’s holy, denyin’ prophecy and revelation, murkin’, stealin’, lyin’, cheating, and all that quarrellin', eventually skedaddlin’ off to Nephi, rubbin’ shoulders with the Lamanites—
And ‘cause of all that wickedness and boastin’ about their own strength, they was left to fend for themselves; so they didn’t thrive but got beat down, driven away by the Lamanites, losin’ nearly all their land.
But, lo and behold, Moronihah preached a whole mess of things to the folks ‘cause of their wrongness, and so did Nephi and Lehi, sons of Helaman, preachin’ and prophesying about their misdeeds and the consequences if’n they didn’t turn their ways around.
Well, it finally happened that they turned back, and as they did, they started to prosper again.
See, when Moronihah noticed their repentance, he took a chance and led ‘em around from place to place, city to city, ‘til they had got back half of their stuff and their lands.
And that wrapped up the sixty-first year of the judges’ reign.
Then in the sixty-second year, Moronihah couldn’t snag any more land from the Lamanites.
So, they gave up on claimin’ the rest of their territory, ‘cause the Lamanites were just too dang many, makin’ it impossible for the Nephites to gain any more ground; so Moronihah focused all his efforts on holdin’ onto what he already had.
And it came to pass, with so many Lamanites around, the Nephites were in sheer panic, worryin’ they’d get overrun, trampled, killed off, and wiped out.
Yeah, they started to remember the prophecies of Alma and the words of Mosiah; they realized they had been so stiff-necked, all the while throwin' God's commandments aside;
They saw how they’d twisted and stomped on the laws Mosiah brought from the Lord; realized their laws had turned all corrupt and they was just as wicked as the Lamanites.
And ‘cause of their wrongdoings, the church started to fade; they began doubtin’ the spirit of prophecy and revelation, and God’s judgment was right in their faces.
They noticed they had grown weak, just like their Lamanite relatives, and the Lord’s Spirit didn’t hang around no more; yep, it had up and left ‘cause the Spirit ain’t livin’ in no unholy places—
So, the Lord stopped protectin’ ‘em by His mighty power, ‘cause they had fallen into doubt and awful wickedness; and they could see that the Lamanites outnumbered them something fierce, and if they didn’t cling to the Lord their God, they were bound to meet their end.
For they saw that the Lamanite strength matched their own, man to man. And that’s how they found themselves in this mess; yep, they had gotten weak real quick, all ‘cause of their own wrongdoings, over just a handful of years.
