Well, lemme tell ya, in this year, ol’ Nephi passed the judgment seat over to a fella by the name of Cezoram.
Now, ya see, their laws and gubb’ment were set up by the folks’ say-so, but the ones who picked the bad stuff outnumbered them good folks, so things was headed for a mess, 'cause the laws got all twisted and bent outta shape.
I’ll tell ya what, they was a real stiff-necked bunch, couldn't follow no law nor justice, ‘less it was takin’ 'em straight to trouble.
So it happened that Nephi was just plain tired of all their wicked ways; he gave up that judgment seat and decided he was gonna spend the rest of his days preachin’ the good word of God, and his brother Lehi, he joined in too.
They remembered what their daddy Helaman told ‘em, and this is what he laid down:
“Hey, boys, I really want y’all to keep God’s commandments, and I’d like for ya to share these words with the folks. Look here, I’ve given ya the names of our first folks who came outta Jerusalem, and I did that so when y’all hear your names, ya remember 'em; and when ya think of 'em, you’ll remember their good deeds.”
So, listen up, my sons, I want y’all to do what’s good, so folks’ll say nice things about ya and write ‘em down, just like ‘em good ones before you.
And now, boys, I got a little more I wanna ask of ya; this ain’t about showin’ off, but about buildin’ up a treasure in heaven, somethin’ that lasts forever; yeah, I’m talkin’ about that sweet gift of eternal life that we reckon was handed down from our ancestors.
Oh, don’t you forget, my boys, what King Benjamin told his people; remember, there ain’t no other way for folks to be saved 'cept through the blood of Jesus Christ, who’s comin’ to redeem us all.
And don’t forget what Amulek told Zeezrom in Ammonihah; he said the Lord’s comin’ to save His people, but not in their sins, but from their sins.
He’s got the power from the Father to save ‘em from their sins if they just repent; that’s why He’s sendin’ His angels to tell folks what it takes to get the Redeemer’s power, leadin’ ‘em to salvation.
And now, my sons, remember that it’s on the rock of our Redeemer, Christ, the Son of God, that y’all gotta build your lives; 'cause when the devil sends his wild winds, and all that chaos, it won’t drag you down to the depths of misery, for y’all are built on that solid rock, a sure foundation where if folks build, they can’t fall.
Now it came to pass these are the words Helaman taught his boys; he told ‘em tons, much ain’t even wrote down, and many that is written.
And they did remember all that he said; so they got out there, keepin’ God’s commandments, spreadin’ the good word all ‘round Nephi, startin’ from the city Bountiful;
Then they headed from there to Gid, from Gid to Mulek;
And from city to city, till they covered all the Nephites down south; and then into Zarahemla among the Lamanites.
And it happened that they preached real powerfully, confusin’ a heap of those who had turned away from the Nephites, 'cause they came forward, owned up to their wrongs, and got baptized for repentance, rushin’ back to the Nephites to fix what they had messed up.
And it came to pass that Nephi and Lehi preached to the Lamanites with such strength and authority, 'cause they were givin' the power to speak and also what to say—
So they spoke in a way that left the Lamanites all stunned, and it convinced so many, that eight thousand of ‘em in Zarahemla and around got baptized for repentance, and turned away from their folks’ bad traditions.
And they decided to head back to the land of Nephi.
But then, wouldn’t ya know it, they got caught by an army of Lamanites and tossed into prison, right in the same place Ammon and the boys got thrown in Limhi’s time.
After bein’ locked up for a good spell without no food, the guards came to take ‘em out to kill ‘em.
But Nephi and Lehi were surrounded like they was in a fire, so scared the guards wouldn't even touch ‘em for fear they’d get burned. Still, Nephi and Lehi wasn’t burned; it was like they was standin’ in the fire and didn’t get hurt at all!
When those guards saw they was all wrapped up in fire and it didn’t even singe ‘em, it gave 'em a boost of bravery.
‘Cause the Lamanites stood back, they couldn’t bring themselves to touch ‘em, just stood there dumbfounded.
Then Nephi and Lehi stepped out and said to ‘em: “Don’t be scared, it’s God showin’ y’all this amazin’ thing, lettin' ya know you can’t lay a hand on us.”
And right after they said that, the ground shook hard, and the prison walls shook like they was about to fall right down; but, miraculously, they didn’t.
Inside that prison was Lamanites and Nephites who had turned away from the path.
Then it came to pass, a cloud of darkness fell over ‘em, and a dreadful fear hit 'em hard.
And it was then a voice come boomin' like it was just above that dark cloud, sayin’: “Repent, repent, and don’t seek to destroy my servants I sent to bring ya good news.”
Well, when they heard that voice, and saw it weren’t thunderous, nor loud and chaotic, but a gentle whisper that cut straight to the soul—
And even with that soft voice, the earth shook like crazy, and the prison walls rattled again, like they was fixin’ to fall, and that darkness cloud stayed put—
And then, the voice came again, sayin’: “Repent, repent, ‘cause the kingdom of heaven’s at hand; and stop trying to harm my servants.” And once again, the ground shook, and the walls trembled.
And the third time, that voice came back, sayin’ marvelous words that a man can’t put into talk, and the walls shook again, and the earth trembled like it was about to break apart.
The Lamanites couldn’t run away ‘cause of that darkness cloud hangin' over ‘em; and they couldn’t move 'cause of the fear that gripped ‘em.
Now there was one fella among ‘em, a Nephite by birth, who had once been with God’s church but walked away.
But then he turned around and saw through that darkness cloud the faces of Nephi and Lehi; their faces was shining bright, like angels. And he saw they was looking up to heaven, as if talkin' or speakin' to someone up there.
Then this fella yelled out to the crowd to turn and look. And sure enough, there was power in ‘em that they did look, and behold, they saw Nephi and Lehi’s faces.
They asked him: “What’s all this mean, and who are those fellas talking with?”
Well, this man’s name was Aminadab. And he told ‘em: “They’s talkin’ with God’s angels.”
Then the Lamanites was like, “What in the world we gotta do to get this darkness cloud off us?”
Aminadab said, “You gotta repent and cry out to the voice until ya got faith in Christ, the one Alma, Amulek, and Zeezrom told ya about; and when y’all do that, the dark cloud’ll lift.”
They all began to holler out to the voice that shook the ground; yeah, they kept on until that dark cloud was gone.
And it came to pass that they looked ‘round, seein’ that the cloud had lifted, and they found they was surrounded, every last soul, by a pillar of fire.
And there stood Nephi and Lehi right in the middle; they was surrounded like they was in a blazin' fire, but it didn’t harm ‘em, nor did it touch the prison walls; they was filled with joy that was too great for words.
And just then, the Holy Spirit of God came down from heaven and filled their hearts up like they was on fire, and they started spoutin’ out marvelous things.
Then a sweet voice came to ‘em, real soft, sayin’:
“Peace, peace be unto ya, ‘cause of your faith in my Beloved Son, who’s been here since the world began.”
Now, when they heard that they looked up to see where that voice was comin’ from, and lo and behold, they saw the heavens open, and angels comin’ down to help ‘em.
About three hundred folks saw and heard all this; they were told to go out and not be amazed, and to have no doubt.
Well, they went out and started ministerin’ to the folks, shoutin’ out all the things they’d seen and heard, so much so that most of the Lamanites got convinced ’cause of all the wonders they witnessed.
And those who got convinced laid down their weapons of war, leavin’ behind all that hatred and their folks’ old ways.
And it came to pass that they gave the Nephites their lands back.
