Well, it happened that when the sixty-second year of the judges’ reign wrapped up, all this here went down, and most of the Lamanites turned out to be pretty righteous folks, 'specially since their goodness outshone the Nephites, what with their steadfastness and all that faith stuff.
Now, lemme tell ya, there sure were a whole lotta Nephites who’d gone and got their hearts all hardened up, bein’ stubborn and downright wicked, shun’ the good word of God and all that preachin’ and prophecy floatin’ 'round 'em.
But, bless your heart, the church folks found a whole heap of joy over the Lamanites findin' the light, yep, 'cause of that church of God that had sprung up among ‘em. They were all about that fellowship, rejoicin’ together, and havin’ a grand ol’ time.
And then it came to be that a whole passel of Lamanites came down into the land of Zarahemla, spillin’ the beans to the Nephites 'bout how they turned their lives around, and tellin’ ’em to have some faith and repent.
Sho’nuff, a whole bunch of ‘em preached with a whole lotta power and authority, and they helped many of the Nephites sink down into real humility, makin’ ‘em humble followers of God and the Lamb.
Then it happened that a bunch of Lamanites headed north; Nephi and Lehi joined 'em too, preachin' to the folks up there. And that’s how the sixty-third year came to a close.
And lo and behold, there was peace stretched across the land, so much so that the Nephites could wander wherever their hearts desired, whether it was hangin’ with Nephites or Lamanites.
They sure did; the Lamanites could go wherever too, be it with their own or mixin’ with the Nephites; they had free reign to trade and sell, doin’ whatever they fancied.
Well, I reckon they got right rich, both the Lamanites and the Nephites; they piled up a whole lotta gold, silver, and all kinds of shiny metals, both down south and up north.
Now, the land down south was called Lehi, and the land up north was known as Mulek, named after Zedekiah's boy; the Lord sent Mulek up north and Lehi down south.
And I’ll be, every kind of gold you could imagine was in both places, along with silver and all sorts of precious ore; they even had folks workin’ the ore and polishin’ it up; they surely got wealthy like that.
They grew grains like nobody’s business, both up north and down south; they thrived real good in both places, multiplyin’ and gettin’ stronger, raisin’ plenty of flocks and herds, yessiree, many a fat calf too.
Just look at their gals, toilin’ and spinnin’, makin’ fine cloth, and all kinds of fabric, to cover up their nakedness. And that’s how the sixty-fourth year rolled by in peace.
Then in the sixty-fifth year, they also basked in joy and peace, 'cause there was a whole lotta preachin’ and prophecies 'bout things to come. And that’s how the sixty-fifth year slipped on by.
And it came to pass that in the sixty-sixth year of the judges’ reign, poor ol’ Cezoram got himself murdered by an unknown scoundrel while sittin’ on his judge seat. And wouldn’t you know it, that same year his boy, who’d been put in charge by the people, got himself murdered too. And just like that, the sixty-sixth year came to an end.
Then kickin' off the sixty-seventh year, folks started gettin’ wicked again, hotter than a goat on a griddle.
You see, the Lord had blessed 'em for so long with worldly riches that they didn’t get riled up for war or blood; so they started fixin' their hearts on their gold; they was lookin' to get ahead of each other; next thing ya know, they was commitin’ secret murders, plunderin', and thievin' to get what they wanted.
And now, lookey here, these no-good murderers and thieves ran in a pack formed by Kishkumen and Gadianton. Now it just so happened that there were plenty of 'em, even among the Nephites, who were in Gadianton’s gang. But they were more common among the wicked Lamanites. And folks started callin’ 'em Gadianton’s robbers and murderers.
Yep, they were the ones that done in that chief judge Cezoram and his boy while they were sittin' in judgment; and well, they couldn’t be found.
Then it came to pass that when the Lamanites figured out there were robbers in their midst, they got downright sad; they did everything in their might to wipe 'em off the face of the earth.
But you know what? Satan stirred up the Nephites' hearts so much that they went and teamed up with them robbers, sealin' their deals and oaths, sayin' they’d look out for each other when things got tough, guaranteein’ they wouldn’t pay for their sins and crimes.
And these folks had their signs, you know, them secret signs and secret words, just to spot a brother in the gang; that way, whatever bad stuff his brother did, he wouldn’t get hurt by him or anyone in their crew who took that same oath.
So that meant they could murder, thieve, and carry on with all kinds of sins, goin’ against the laws of the land and God.
And whoever in their band spilled the beans about their wrongdoings would be tried not by the laws of the land but by their own wicked laws, made up by Gadianton and Kishkumen.
Let me tell ya, Alma sure gave a warning to his boy not to let them secret oaths and covenants see the light of day, or they’d lead folks to ruin.
Now, I gotta tell ya, them secret oaths and covenants didn’t come from the records given to Helaman. No, siree, they was put right into Gadianton’s heart by that same rascal who led our folks to taste that forbidden fruit—
You got it, that same one who pulled tricks with Cain, whisperin’ that if he offed his brother Abel, nobody would be the wiser. And he’s been workin’ with Cain and his buddies ever since.
And he’s also the one who got folks to build a tower tall enough to reach heaven. That same fella led the people from that tower into this land, spreadin’ darkness and all kinds of evils ‘til he dragged 'em down to total ruin, and an everlasting hell.
Yup, it’s that same character who nudged Gadianton to keep the darkness rollin’ and the secret murderin’ alive; he’s been at it from the get-go, all the way down to now.
And can you believe it? He’s the culprit behind all sin. He’s out there doin’ his dark deeds and secret murderin’, handin’ down plots, oaths, and plans of wickedness from one generation to the next, as long as he can lay claim to folks' hearts.
And now check this out, he really dug in deep with the Nephites’ hearts; so much so, they got exceedingly wicked; most of 'em tossed righteousness aside, trampin’ on God’s commandments, followin’ their own paths, and buildin’ themselves idols made of gold and silver.
And it came to pass that all these wicked ways got piled on top of 'em in just a few years, to where most of it hit 'em in the sixty-seventh year of them judges over the Nephites.
They kept growin' in their bad ways in the sixty-eighth year too, fillin’ the righteous folks with great gloom and sadness.
So, y’all see, the Nephites started slippin’ into disbelief, growin’ in their wicked ways and habits, while the Lamanites blossomed in knowin’ their God; yep, they began keepin’ His rules and commands, walkin’ in truth and honesty before Him.
It’s clearer than mud that the Spirit of the Lord started pullin’ away from the Nephites, what with their evil ways and hard hearts.
And so we see that the Lord began to shower His Spirit on the Lamanites, 'cause they were open and ready to believe in His words.
Sure enough, the Lamanites went huntin’ for Gadianton’s robbers; they took to preachin’ the word of God among those who were still wicked, and that whole gang of robbers got wiped out from among the Lamanites.
On the flip side, the Nephites went and lifted them up, supportin’ that wicked bunch, startin’ with the worst of 'em, until they spread out all over Nephite land, gettin’ the majority of the righteous to buy into their ways, enjoyin’ the perks of their wickedness, and joinin’ in on their secret murders and schemes.
So they took over the whole government, tramplin’ on the meek and poor folks, and turnin’ their backs on the humble followers of God.
And thus we see they found themselves in a pretty dire state, ripenin' for total destruction.
And so it came to pass that this is how the sixty-eighth year of the judges’ reign over the Nephites came to a close.
