Well, it sure did happen that when Nephi finished spoutin’ off his words, there was a bunch of fellas who were judges, part of that secret gang called Gadianton, and they was fit to be tied. They hollered at the folks, sayin’: Why ain’t y’all grabbin’ this man and draggin’ him out here, so he can be judged for whatever trouble he’s caused?
What’s the deal with this fella, and why y’all lettin’ him talk bad about us and our laws?
Well, reckon Nephi was layin’ it out straight to ‘em about how shady their laws were; shoot, he gabbed on about a heap of things that just can’t be scribbled down, and nothin’ he said went against God’s commandments.
Them judges got all riled up ‘cause he was bein’ real frank about their sneaky, dark deeds; but they didn’t dare lay a hand on him, ‘cause they were scared the folks would turn on them.
So they hollered to the crowd, sayin’: Why y’all lettin’ this man talk smack about us? He’s sayin’ this whole lot of people gon’ be doomed, and our good towns are gonna be taken from us, leavin’ us with nowhere to go.
Now we all know that ain’t happenin’, ‘cause we’re powerful and our towns are mighty fine, so ain’t no way our enemies can get the upper hand.
So, they got the folks all stirred up, tryin’ to turn ‘em against Nephi, causin’ all sorts of fuss; some folks were shoutin’: Leave that man be, he’s a good soul, and what he’s sayin’ is likely to come true if we don’t straighten up;
Yeah, all the judgments he’s warned us about are gonna come down on us, ‘cause we know he’s speakin’ truth about our wicked ways. And he knows just as well every little thing that’s gonna happen to us, just like he knows our messes;
Yup, and if he wasn’t a prophet, he wouldn’t be able to talk about all this.
So it turned out that the folks gunnin’ for Nephi didn’t have the guts to lay hands on him ‘cause they were scared, so he started talkin’ to ‘em again, seein’ he had some folks on his side, makin’ the rest of ‘em uneasy.
So he felt pushed to say more to ‘em: Listen up, my brothers, ain't y’all ever heard that God gave a man, Moses, the power to smack those waters of the Red Sea, and they parted like curtains, lettin’ the Israelites, our forefathers, walk through on dry ground while the water swallowed up the Egyptians?
Now, if God could hand that kinda power to Moses, why in tarnation are y’all fussin’ and sayin’ He ain't given me no power to know what’s comin’ for y’all if you don’t turn back around?
But look here, y’all ain’t just denyin’ what I’m sayin’, you’re rejectin’ all the words our forefathers spoke too, even what Moses had to say, ‘cause he had some serious power, speakin’ about the Messiah comin’.
Didn’t he say the Son of God was gonna come? And just like he lifted up that bronze serpent in the desert, so shall the one who comes be lifted up too.
And just like folks who looked at that serpent lived, so too will folks who look on the Son of God with faith, having a humble spirit, find life everlasting.
Now reckon Moses didn’t just testify about these things, but so did all them holy prophets, from his time back to Abraham’s days.
Yeah, and Abraham saw him comin’ and was filled with joy and excitement.
Now listen, I’m tellin’ y’all, Abraham not only knew all this, there were plenty before him who were called by God’s order; reckon they was even after the order of His Son; and it’s to show the people that redemption would come long before He arrived, thousands of years ahead.
Now, y’all oughta know, from the days of Abraham, there’s been a whole mess of prophets out there testifying about all this; that brave old prophet Zenos testified loud and proud, and guess what? Got himself killed for it.
And don’t forget about Zenock, Ezias, Isaiah, and Jeremiah (the one who called out the destruction of Jerusalem), and we all know Jerusalem went down just like Jeremiah said. So why wouldn’t the Son of God come just like he prophesied?
Now are y’all gonna argue that Jerusalem wasn’t destroyed? Are ya gonna tell me the sons of Zedekiah didn’t meet their end, ‘cept for Mulek? Do ya not see that Zedekiah’s seed is with us, and they were run outta Jerusalem? But hold on just a minute—
Our daddy Lehi was chased outta Jerusalem ‘cause he was talkin’ about all this. Nephi was sayin’ it too, along with nearly all our ancestors, even to this day; yep, they’ve been shoutin’ about Christ comin’ and lookin’ forward, rejoicin’ in the day that’s ahead.
And let me tell ya, He’s God, and He’s among ‘em, showin’ himself to ‘em, and they got redeemed by Him; and they gave Him glory ‘cause of what’s comin’.
Now, since y’all know all this and can’t deny it unless you’re tellin’ a flat-out lie, well, I reckon in that you’ve sinned, ‘cause you’ve turned your backs on all these facts, despite all the proof you been shown; even got witnessin’ from up high and down here on Earth, showin’ that it’s all true.
But lo and behold, you’ve turned away from the truth and rebelled against your holy God; and even right now, instead of stockin’ up treasures in heaven where no corruption can touch ‘em, you’re stackin’ up wrath for the day of judgment.
Yep, at this very moment you’re lettin’ your sins pile up, ‘cause of your murders, fornication, and wickedness, just waitin’ for your everlasting destruction; and if ya don’t turn your ways, it’s comin’ for ya real soon.
Yeah, it’s knockin’ at your door now; you best head on over to that judgment seat and have a look; your judge has been done murdered, layin’ in a pool of his own blood, and it was his brother what killed him, tryin’ to claim that judgment seat.
And you better believe they’re both in cahoots with your secret gang, led by Gadianton and that evil one out to ruin the souls of men.
