Well now, it was like this: when Nephi got done sayin’ his piece, a few fellas in the crowd took off runnin’ to the judgment-seat; there were five of ‘em, and they were chattin’ away as they made their way.
Well, now we’re gonna find out for sure if this fella is a prophet and if God sent him to tell us all these wonders. We ain't buyin’ it yet; we didn’t think he was a prophet. But if what he said ‘bout the chief judge bein’ dead turns out to be true, then we’ll reckon that the other stuff he said might hold water too.
So they ran hard, made it to the judgment-seat, and lo and behold, the chief judge was down on the ground, bleedin' like a stuck pig.
When they saw that sight, good gracious, they were shocked outta their boots, and just fell right down on the ground; they hadn't believed a word Nephi had said ‘bout the chief judge before this.
But as soon as they laid eyes on it, their belief kicked in, and they were scared stiff thinkin’ ‘bout all them judgments Nephi mentioned might just come down on the folks, so they was shakin' and hit the dirt.
Now, soon as the judge got himself murdered—stabbed by his own brother, and that brother skedaddled off all sneaky-like, and thehelpers ran back yellin’ murder;
And lo, the crowd gathered ‘round the judgment-seat, and to their total surprise, they saw those five fellas who had gone down earlier.
But the folks didn’t have a clue ‘bout the big group that had gathered at Nephi's garden; so they started talkin’ amongst themselves, sayin’, “These boys right here are the ones who done killed the judge, and God done knocked ‘em down so they couldn’t run away from us.”
They got ahold of those fellas, tied ‘em up, and tossed ‘em in jail. And word spread like wildfire that the judge was gone and the murderers was locked up tight.
Next day, the folks showed up to mourn and shake it off at the burial of their chief judge, that great man who’d been slain.
And those judges who’d been at Nephi’s garden, the ones who heard him out, they showed up too for the buryin’.
So then they started askin’ the crowd, “Where’s the five that were sent to check if the chief judge was dead?” And the people answered, “We got no idea where y’all reckon they’ve run off to, but we got five fellas right there who done the deed, and we locked ‘em up.”
A’ight, so the judges wanted to see ‘em brought in; they was fetched, and guess what? Yep, it was them five who’d gone. So the judges asked ‘em ‘bout what happened, and they spilled the beans sayin’:
“We ran right on over to the judgment-seat, and when we saw everything just like Nephi said, we was dumbfounded, fell down on the ground; and when we pulled ourselves back together, they tossed us in the clink.”
Now, ‘bout that murder, we can’t say who done it; all we know is we came runnin’ just like y'all wanted, and behold, he was dead, just like Nephi said.
Then them judges explained it all to the folks and started hollerin’ against Nephi, sayin’, “We know he’s in cahoots with someone to off the judge, and then he could come tell us, tryin’ to pull us into his faith, tryin’ to make himself out to be some big shot, chosen by God and a prophet.”
Now, we’s a-gonna catch this fella, and he’s gonna confess and spill the beans ‘bout who really killed the judge.
Well, the five was let go on the day of the buryin’. But they sure gave them judges a piece of their mind for all the talk they’d jabbered ‘bout Nephi, takin’ ‘em on one at a time and totally messin’ with their heads.
But somehow, they managed to grab Nephi, tie him up, and drag him before the crowd, startin’ to grill him from every angle tryin’ to trip him up, so they could pin the blame on him for death—
Talkin’ to him like, “You’re all in this together; who’s the fella that done this murder? Now come clean, and own up the deed; here’s some cash; we’ll even let ya keep breathin’ if you’ll just spill the beans and own up to your buddy you’re workin’ with.”
But Nephi shot back, “Y’all are just plain foolish, blind as a bat and hard-headed! Do ya have any idea how long the Lord’s gonna put up with your sinning ways?”
“Y’all need to start cryin’ and feelin’ real sorry, ‘cause y’all got some serious trouble comin’ your way, ‘less you turn your lives ‘round.”
“You think I’m conspirin’ with someone to have Seezoram, our chief judge, killed? Well, lemme tell you, I’m sayin’ this to ya ’cause I testified to you so you’d know what’s really goin’ on; it’s just proof that I see the wickedness and all the nasty stuff happenin’ among ya.”
“And ‘cause I've done that, you reckon I’m in cahoots with someone to do this? Yep, ‘cause I showed y’all a sign, you’re furious, tryin’ to take my life.”
“Now listen up, I’m fixin’ to show y’all another sign, let’s see if you’re still gonna want to hunt me down.”
“Here’s the deal: Go on over to Seantum's house, the brother of Seezoram, and ask him—”
“Did that slick talker Nephi, the so-called prophet, who keeps yappin’ ‘bout all the bad stuff comin’ our way, did he partner up with you to murder Seezoram, your own brother?”
“And I bet he’ll say, ‘Nope.’”
“Then you ask him: Did you kill your brother?”
“He’ll stand there all scared-like, not knowin’ what to say. And I betcha, he’ll act all shocked, but he’ll still say he’s innocent.”
“But y’all need to check him over, ‘cause you’ll find blood on the hem of his coat.”
“When you see that, just ask: Where’d this blood come from? Don’t we know it’s your brother’s blood?”
“Then he’ll go pale, looking like he’s seen a ghost.”
“Then you tell him: ‘Cause of this fright and the paleness on your face, well, we know you’re guilty.”
“Then he’ll get all scared again, and then he’ll confess, and won’t deny no more that he’s done the deed.”
“And then he’ll say, ‘Look here, I, Nephi, ain’t got a clue ‘bout none of this, ‘cept what God’s told me.’ And then y’all will know I’m an honest man, sent by God.”
So they took off and did just like Nephi told ‘em. And wouldn’t ya know it, what he said held true; ‘cause he denied it just like he said, and then fessed up just like he’d said he would.
And then they brought him out as proof he was the very one who committed the murder, so those five got to walk free, along with Nephi.
Now there were some Nephites who took to heart what Nephi said, and some others, who changed their minds ‘cause of the five’s testimony, since they found faith while sittin’ in the slammer.
And then there were folks in the crowd who said Nephi was a prophet.
And others was sayin’, “Well, he’s gotta be a god ‘cause if he wasn’t, how could he know all this stuff? He done read our hearts and told us all manner of things; and even showed us who the real killer of our chief judge was.”
