Well now, it all began when I got curious ’bout what my old man had seen, thinkin' the Good Lord could show me the same. As I was sittin’ there in my own thoughts, I got yanked up by the Spirit of the Lord, high atop a mountain I’d never laid eyes on before.
Then the Spirit asked me, “What in tarnation do you want to see?”
I replied, “I’d like to lay my eyes on the things my father saw.”
The Spirit pressed on, “Do ya really believe your dad saw that there tree he was yammerin’ about?”
I said, “Sure as shootin’, I believe every word that man spoke.”
Once I said that, the Spirit hollered out real loud, “Yeehaw to the Lord, the highest of the high! He is the big cheese over all this here earth and beyond! And bless yer heart, Nephi, ‘cause you got faith in the Son of the most high God; so you’re gonna see the things you’re wantin’ to see.”
“Here’s a sign for ya,” said the Spirit, “after you’ve glimpsed the tree that bore the fruit your father nibbled, you’re gonna see a man come down from heaven, and you’ll bear witness to him; and once you’ve seen him, you’ll testify he’s the Son of God.”
So the Spirit piped up again, “Look! And I turned my gaze and spied a tree, just like the one my old man had seen; its beauty was outta this world, beyond all reckonin’, and its whiteness was cleaner than freshly fallen snow.
After clockin’ that tree, I told the Spirit, “I see you’ve shown me the tree that’s worth more’n gold.”
“What’s on yer mind?” the Spirit asked me.
“I’d like to know what it all means,” I replied; I was talkin’ to him like a fellow man would; ‘cause I could see he looked like a man, yet I knew deep down he was the Spirit of the Lord—he was chatty like two folks having a chinwag.
The Spirit said to me, “Look!” So I turned to see him, but he done left my sight.
Next thing I knew, I was laid eyes on the grand city of Jerusalem, and other towns, too. I even spotted the town of Nazareth, and in it, a beautiful virgin gal, fair and shining like the sun.
Then the heavens opened up wide, and an angel floated down and stood right in front of me, askin’, “Nephi, what are ya lookin’ at?”
I said, “A virgin, more beautiful and fair than any other I’ve ever seen.”
“Do ya know the condescension of God?” he queried.
“I reckon I know He loves His young’uns,” I replied, “but I’m kinda lost on the meaning of it all.”
He said, “Look close, the virgin you see is the mother of the Son of God, in the flesh.”
Soon enough, I saw she was whisked away by the Spirit; and after a spell, the angel spoke again, sayin’, “Look!”
I turned and saw that virgin again, cradlin’ a baby in her arms.
The angel shouted, “Look at the Lamb of God, the Son of the Everlastin’ Father! Do ya know what that tree your father spied means?”
I answered, “Yup, it’s the love of God, spreadin’ warm ‘n wide in folks’ hearts; so it’s the most sought-after thing around.”
“Right yonder with ya, it brings the greatest joy,” he said.
After spoutin' that, he said, “Look!” So I turned and spied the Son of God movin’ around amongst folks; I saw many folks drop down and worship him.
Next, I noticed that the iron rod my father had seen was the word of God, leadin’ folks to the livin’ waters, or the tree of life; and those waters were just another way to show God’s love; and I reckon that tree of life was just that—a symbol of God’s love.
Then the angel nudged me again, “Look and see the condescension of God!”
I turned and saw the world’s Redeemer my father had talked about; I also caught sight of the prophet who was gonna pave the way for him. I watched the Lamb of God stride out and get baptized by him; and right after, the heavens opened again, and the Holy Ghost came down like a dove to hang around him.
I saw him out there working hard among the people, full of power and glory; crowds gathered ‘round to hear him, and I also saw him get tossed out by ‘em.
I took note of twelve others followin’ in his wake. All of a sudden, they were swept away in the Spirit right from my sight, and I lost track of ‘em.
Then the angel piped up again, “Look!” I turned my eyes again and saw the heavens open up once more, with angels floatin’ down to help out the folks livin’ down here.
He called out again, “Look!” And I looked to see the Lamb of God minglin’ with the folks on the ground. I laid eyes on heaps of sick folks, afflicted with all sorts of ailments, and also the devilish sort; and the angel showed me all this. They were healed by the power of the Lamb of God, and the devils and unclean spirits got tossed out of ‘em.
The angel spoke to me again, “Look!” I looked and saw the Lamb of God bein’ taken by the people; sure enough, the Son of the everlasting God was judged by the world; and I saw and took note of it.
I, Nephi, saw him hoisted up on the cross and slain for the world’s sins.
And once he was gone, I saw the multitudes gettin’ all riled up, fixin’ to take on the apostles of the Lamb; ‘cause that’s what those twelve were called by the Lord’s angel.
The earth’s multitude was gathered round; and I saw a grand ol’ building, spacious and airy, like the one my father had laid his eyes on. The Lord’s angel spoke up to me once more, “Take a gander at the world and its phony wisdom; looky here, the house of Israel has come together to take on the twelve apostles of the Lamb.”
I witnessed it all and can testify: that grand, spacious building represented the pride of the world; and it fell down, and it fell hard. And the angel spoke to me one last time, “Just like that shall be the doom of all nations, clans, tongues, and people that take on the twelve apostles of the Lamb.”
