Well now, the angel told me to take a gander at my kinfolk and their kin too. So I did, and what do you know, I laid my eyes on the land of promise, packed with folks, just as many as grains of sand at the beach.
Next thing ya know, I spotted a whole mess of folks fixin’ to scrap, throwin’ down against each other; I saw skirmishes, whispers of fights, and mighty battles where swords were swung among my people.
Time rolled on, and I witnessed generation after generation fade away, all caught up in a swirl of wars and fussin’ about the land; I couldn’t even count the towns.
Then I noticed this thick, dark fog rollin’ over the land of promise; there were flashin’ lights, rumblin’ thunder, shakin’ ground, and all kinds of commotion; I saw the earth crackin’, rocks breakin’ loose; mountains crumblin’ down, and fields all torn up; cities sunk into the ground, some burnin’ bright, and many takin’ a tumble due to the mighty quakes.
After takin’ all that in, I noticed that thick darkness liftin’ from the earth; and lo and behold, there were a whole bunch who hadn’t been taken down by the Lord’s fearsome judgments.
Heavens opened wide, and I saw the Lamb of God comin’ down from above; he touched down and showed himself to the folks.
I also saw and can vouch that the Holy Ghost dropped down on twelve other fellers; they were hand-picked by God, no doubt about it.
The angel told me: Looky here, these are the twelve disciples of the Lamb, chosen to lend a hand to your kin.
Then he reminded me of the twelve apostles of the Lamb. They're the ones who’re gonna judge the twelve tribes of Israel; so the twelve ministers from your line will be judged by 'em; 'cause you're part of the house of Israel.
And these twelve ministers I see will judge your kin. And I’ll be a prairie dog, they’re righteous forever! Their faith in the Lamb of God got their clothes all cleaned up in his blood.
And the angel said: Look! So I looked, and saw three generations ride off in righteousness; their threads were white just like the Lamb of God’s. The angel told me: They got their threads all clean in the blood of the Lamb, thanks to their faith in him.
I, Nephi, noticed many folks from the fourth generation who also rode off right.
Then I saw a whole heap of folks from all over the earth gatherin' up.
The angel pointed out to me: Look at your kin, and your brethren’s kin too.
So I looked and saw my own folks all gatherin’ in a great big crowd ready to throw down against my brethren’s kin; they were all set for some serious tussles.
Then the angel spoke up: Take a gander at that nasty fountain of water your father saw; yep, the river he talked about; it’s the depth of the abyss.
And those dark mists? They're just the devil’s temptations, blindin' folks and hardenin' their hearts, leadin’ ‘em down wide paths where they just end up lost, wanderin' off to nowhere.
That big ol' fancy building your father saw? That's just empty dreams and the prideful nature of folks. And there's a mighty chasm between ‘em; it’s equal to the word of the Lord’s justice, the Messiah who’s the Lamb of God, whose spirit’s been testifyin’ since the start of time up till now and forevermore.
While the angel was layin’ all this on me, I saw my brethren’s kin takin’ on mine just as the angel said; and ‘cause of our pride and the devil’s tricks, I noticed they were overrun by my brethren's folks.
So I looked again and saw my brethren's folks had beaten mine; they charged forth in droves across that land.
I watched them gather in big ol' groups; wars and chatter of fights buzzin’ all around 'em; and in all that rumble, I saw many generations get swept away.
The angel told me: Look out, ‘cause these folks are gonna dwindle in disbelief.
Then I saw that after they drifted in doubt, they turned into a dark and nasty bunch, full of laziness and all sorts of wickedness.
