Well now, I reckon when the day comes, if them Gentiles listen up to the Lamb of God, He'll show 'em His ways and His might, clearin' the path for ‘em.
If they ain't hardening their hearts against the Lamb, they'll be counted amongst your folks, kindred to the house of Israel; a blessed bunch on the promised land forever, never again to be dragged off into captivity; the house of Israel won’t face no more shame.
That big ol’ pit, dug by the nasty church run by the devil and his minions to drag folks down to perdition—yep, that same pit's gonna be filled with those who done the digging, sealing their fate, says the Lamb of God; it ain’t the soul that's destroyed, unless it’s tossed into that never-ending hellfire.
You see, this here’s all tied up with the devil's hold and the justice of God for all who go about doing wicked deeds and abominations on His good earth.
Then the angel spoke to me, Nephi, sayin': "You saw that if the Gentiles turn their ways, things will go well for 'em; you’ve also been clued in on the Lord's covenants with the house of Israel; and you’ve sure heard that those who don’t turn will meet their end."
So, woe betide the Gentiles if they stubborn their hearts against the Lamb of God.
'Cause the time's comin', says the Lamb, when I’ll do a mighty fine work among the folk; a work that’ll last, whether it leads them to peace and everlasting life or it hardens their hearts, blinds their minds, and drags 'em down to captivity and ruin, both in this life and the next, tied up with the devil's grip, just like I said.
Then the angel asked me: "Do you remember the Father’s covenants with the house of Israel?" I said, "Sure do."
Then he said: "Looky here, at that great and wicked church, the mother of all abominations, founded by the devil hisself."
And he told me: "Now listen close, there’s only two churches around; one’s the church of the Lamb of God, and the other’s the devil's church; so, anyone not belonging to the Lamb’s church is part of that big ol’ abominable one, the mother of all wickedness; she’s the harlot of the earth."
Then I looked and saw that harlot sittin' pretty on many waters; she ruled over all nations, tribes, languages, and folks.
I also noticed the church of the Lamb of God was a small crowd, ‘cause of all the wickedness and abominations of that harlot sittin' on many waters; still, the saints of God were scattered all over the earth, though their numbers were few due to the vile acts of that great harlot I saw.
Then I witnessed that great mother of abominations rounding up a whole mess of folks across the earth, rallyin' ‘em all to take on the Lamb of God.
Then I, Nephi, saw the power of the Lamb of God hit the saints of the Lamb's church and the Lord’s covenant folks, who were spread out all over; they were decked out with righteousness and God’s power shinin' bright.
I saw the wrath of God come down on that great and wicked church, causing wars and tales of wars to spread among all nations and tribes of the earth.
And as those wars began to break out ‘mongst the nations tied to that mother of abominations, the angel spoke to me, sayin': "Look out, the wrath of God is comin’ for this mother of harlots; and you see all this goin' on—"
"When that day finally arrives when God’s wrath is dished out on that mother of harlots, that great and vile church whose roots are in the devil, then that’ll be the day the Father’s work gets rolling, preparin’ the way to fulfill the promises He's made to His people of the house of Israel."
Then the angel said: "Now look!"
I turned my gaze and saw a man in a white robe.
The angel said: "That there's one of the twelve apostles of the Lamb."
"You'll see and write down the rest of these things; and there’s plenty more he’ll tackle, too."
"He’ll also write about how this world will end."
"So, what he writes will be just and true; and you’ll see it in that book you beheld comin’ from the mouth of the Jew; and when it was spoken, it was plain as the nose on your face, and precious, easy for any feller to understand."
"And here’s the kicker: what this apostle of the Lamb will write includes many things you’ve seen; and there’s more you gotta see."
"But the things you’ll witness later on, you ain’t meant to write down; the Lord God’s got the apostle of the Lamb appointed to pen those."
"And others who’ve come before him’ve seen it all, written it down; and it’s sealed up to come forth in their pure form, according to the truth that’s in the Lamb, right on time of the Lord, for the house of Israel."
"I, Nephi, heard and bear witness that the name of that apostle of the Lamb is John, just like the angel told me."
"And I, Nephi, am told not to write down the rest of what I saw and heard; so I figure the things I've penned are good enough for now; I’ve written just a sliver of what I beheld."
"I stand as a testament that I saw the things my father saw, and the angel of the Lord made ‘em known to me."
"Now I’m wrappin' up my sayin’ about what I saw while I was carried away in the Spirit; and if I ain't penned every single thing I witnessed, know this: what I have written is the truth. And that’s all there is to it. Amen."
