Well now, let me spin ya a yarn in a way that’ll tickle your cowboy ears:
And it happened that after I, Nephi, got swept up in the Spirit and saw all sorts of sights, I sauntered back to the ol’ canvas home my pa had set up.
And it happened that I laid eyes on my brothers, and they were wrangling and arguing ‘bout the words my father had laid on ’em.
For he definitely dished out a heap of profound talkin’ that was tricky to wrangle with unless a feller asked the Almighty; and since their hearts were harder than a rock, they didn’t look up to the Lord as they should’ve.
And now, I, Nephi, was feelin’ low ‘cause of their hard-hearted ways, and also, ‘cause of the sights I had seen, knowin’ they was bound to happen due to the great mischief of mankind.
And it came to pass that I got all burdened down with my troubles, thinkin’ my own were the worst of the lot, ‘cause I watched my folks tumble down.
And after I gathered my strength, I spoke to my brothers, keen to know the root of their fussin’.
And they said: We can’t make heads or tails of what our father meant about the natural branches of the olive tree, nor about the Gentiles.
And I said to them: Have ya asked the Lord about it?
And they replied: Nope; the Lord ain’t let us in on this.
Well, I said: How come y’all don’t stick to the Lord’s commandments? How come y’all think you’re gonna be lost due to your hard hearts?
Don’t y’all remember what the Lord has told ya?—If ya ain’t gonna harden your hearts and ask me in faith, trustin' you’ll get answers while keepin’ my commandments, then certainly, this will all be revealed to ya.
Listen up, I tell y’all, the house of Israel got likened to an olive tree by the Spirit that was in our father; and hey, ain’t we cut off from that house, bein’ branches of that very olive tree?
Now, what our father meant when he talked about grafting in the natural branches through the fullness of the Gentiles is that in the latter days, when our offspring done dwindled in faith, yep, for ages, and many a generation after the Messiah shows up in the flesh, then the fullness of the gospel of the Messiah will be given to the Gentiles, and from the Gentiles back to the leftovers of our kin—
And on that day, the remnant of our folks will realize they’re from the house of Israel, and they’re the Lord’s covenant folks; and then they’ll learn and uncover their ancestors' knowledge, along with the gospel of their Redeemer, which was given to their forefathers by Him; thus, they’ll grasp the knowledge of their Redeemer and the core of His teachings, so they’ll know how to get to Him and find salvation.
And then when that day comes, won’t they be whoopin’ and hollerin’ praises to their everlasting God, their rock and their savior? You bet, on that day, won’t they get their strength and nourishment straight from the true vine? Sure will they come into the true fold of God!
Listen up, I say unto you, Yep; they’ll be remembered among the house of Israel again; they’ll be grafted back in as natural branches of that olive tree to the true olive tree.
And this is what our father meant; he meant it ain’t gonna happen till after they’re scattered by the Gentiles; and he meant it’ll come through the Gentiles, so the Lord shows His might to ‘em, ‘cause He’ll get rejected by the Jews, or the house of Israel.
So, our father wasn’t just spillin’ the beans ‘bout our kin, but also all the house of Israel, pointin’ to the covenant that’s to be fulfilled in the latter days; that covenant the Lord made with our father Abraham, sayin’: Through your seed shall all kindreds of the earth be blessed.
And it came to pass that I, Nephi, talked a whole heap ‘bout these things; yep, I laid it down for them about the Jews’ coming back in the latter days.
And I recounted the words of Isaiah, who spoke of the Jews’ restoration, or the house of Israel; and once they were brought back, they wouldn’t be confounded again, nor scattered. And I talked a long spell to my brothers, and they settled down and humbled themselves before the Lord.
And it came to pass they spoke to me again, askin’: What does this dream our father had mean? What’s the deal with the tree he saw?
And I said to ’em: It was a picture of the tree of life.
And they asked me: What’s the rod of iron our father saw that led to the tree?
And I told ‘em it was the word of God; and whoever’d listen to the word of God and hold on tight wouldn’t be lost; nor could the temptations and sharp arrows of the adversary blind ‘em to lead ‘em off to perdition.
So I, Nephi, encouraged ‘em to pay attention to the word of the Lord; yep, I urged ‘em with all I had and all the fire in my soul to remember to hold fast to the word of God and keep His commandments always in every single thing.
And they said to me: What’s the deal with the river of water our father saw?
And I told ‘em that the water he saw was filthy; and so much was his mind caught up in other matters that he didn’t notice the muck of the water.
And I told ‘em it was a mighty chasm that separated the wicked from the tree of life, and also from God's saints.
And I said that it was a picture of that dreadful hell, which the angel told me was prepared for the wicked.
And I also told ‘em that our father saw how the justice of God divides the wicked from the righteous; and the brightness of it was like a blazing fire, shootin' up to God forever and ever, with no end in sight.
And they asked me: Does this mean the torment of the body during this probationary time, or does it refer to what becomes of the soul after the body kicks the bucket, or does it talk about things that are temporary?
And it came to pass that I replied that it was a representation of both the temporal and the spiritual; ‘cause the day will come that they’ll face judgment for their deeds, yep, even those deeds they did while in the flesh during their time here.
Therefore, if they kick the bucket in their wickedness, they’ll be cast off when it comes to the things of the spirit, which pertain to righteousness; and they’ll stand before God to be judged by their deeds; and if their works are filthy, they gotta be filthy too; and if they’re filthy, there’s no way they can hang out in God’s kingdom; if so, God’s kingdom would be filthy too.
But here’s the kicker, the kingdom of God ain’t filthy, and no unclean thing can waltz into the kingdom of God; hence, there must be a place set aside for filthiness for things that be filthy.
And there’s a spot ready, you know it, that awful hell I’ve spoken of, and the devil’s the one who’s set that up; so the final fate of folks’ souls is to live in God’s kingdom or to be thrown out on account of that justice I was talkin’ about.
So, the wicked get booted from the righteous, and also from that tree of life, whose fruit is the most precious and sought after above all other fruits; yep, and it’s the greatest of all gifts from God. And that’s the tale I spun to my brothers. Amen.
