Well now, after I, Nephi, had wrapped up my talk with my kinfolk, they shot back at me, sayin’: “You sure have laid some heavy truths on us, more than we can take.”
I told ‘em straight out I knew I was speakin’ hard truths ‘bout the wicked folks, and I stood up for the righteous, sayin' they’ll be lifted high in the end; but the guilty ones just can’t handle the truth, ‘cause it slices ‘em right to their core.
Now listen here, brothers, if y’all were on the up and up and ready to hear the truth, walkin’ tall before the Lord, ya wouldn’t be complainin’ and sayin’: “You’re speakin’ harsh words ‘gainst us.”
So I, Nephi, urged my brothers real hard to keep to the good Lord’s commandments.
Well, it wasn’t long before they got down on their knees before the Lord; I was filled with joy and high hopes that they’d walk the righteous path.
Now keep this in mind, all this was going on while my pa was camped out in a tent down in a valley he named Lemuel.
Next thing you know, I, Nephi, wed one of Ishmael’s daughters, and my brothers also snagged a couple of Ishmael’s girls, and even Zoram took the eldest for his wife.
So my father nailed down all the commandments the Lord had given him, and I, Nephi, was mighty blessed by the Lord too.
Then one night, the Lord spoke to my father and told him that come mornin’, he should hit the trails into the wilderness.
When my father woke up in the mornin’ and stepped out to the tent flap, he was shocked to find a shiny round ball sittin’ on the ground, all crafted fancy-like out of brass. Inside that ball were two spindles, one of which pointed the way we oughta go in the wild.
So we all gathered up whatever we could haul into that wilderness, includin’ all the goods the Lord had tossed our way, and we took seeds of every sort to plant in the wild.
Then we grabbed our tents and set off into the wilderness, crossin’ the river Laman.
After four days of travelin' south-southeast, we set up camp again, and we named that spot Shazer.
Then we grabbed our bows and arrows and headed back into the wild to hunt us up some grub for the families; after bouncin’ back with food, we returned to our kin in the wild, right there in Shazer, and then we hit the trail again, stickin’ to the fertile patches close to the Red Sea.
We traveled hard for a heap of days, huntin’ food with our bows, arrows, stones, and slings.
We kept followin’ the ball’s directions, which led us right through the more fertile areas in the wild.
After many days of travel, we finally set up camp for a spell to recuperate and fetch some food for the folks.
But while I was out huntin’, my bow, made of fine steel, broke. This got my brothers riled up, seein’ as we weren’t bringin’ any food home with us.
We returned empty-handed to our families, tired out from the journey, and they were really hurtin’ ‘cause of the lack of food.
So Laman and Lemuel, along with Ishmael’s sons, started complainin’ like there was no tomorrow about their struggles in the wild; my father even started grumblin’ ‘gainst the Lord, and they all were mighty sorrowful, murmurfin’ at the Lord.
Well, I, Nephi, was already downcast ‘cause of my brothers’ grief over my broken bow, and with their bows sprung loose, we were havin’ a tough time findin’ food.
I had a long chat with my brothers, tryin’ to bring ‘em back round, ‘cause they’d set their hearts against the Lord again and were complainin’.
So I whittled myself a bow out of wood, fashioned an arrow from a straight stick, and armed myself real good with it, plus a sling and some stones. Then I asked my father, “Where should I head to find us some food?”
He prayed to the Lord, 'cause they had humbled themselves after my talks; I had poured my heart into my words.
Then the Lord’s voice rang out to my father, givin’ him a good scoldin’ for his mutterin’ against the Lord, which brought him low into deep sorrow.
The Lord then told him, “Look at the ball and see what’s written on it.”
When my father took a look at the writings on that ball, he feared and trembled a whole lot, and my brothers and Ishmael’s sons and our wives felt the same way.
I, Nephi, noticed that the pointers in that ball worked according to the faith, hard work, and attention we gave to it.
There was also new writin’ on it, plain as day, givin’ us insight into the ways of the Lord, changin’ from time to time, based on the faith and effort we put in. This shows how the Lord can pull off great things through small means.
I climbed up to the top of the mountain, just like the ball directed me to do.
I ended up takin’ down some wild game, enough to provide food for our families.
When I returned to our camp, carryin’ the critters I’d snagged, the joy from my family was through the roof! They humbled themselves before the Lord and gave thanks.
Then we took off on our journey again, nearly retracin’ our steps from before, and after many days of trippin’, we pitched our tents once more to rest for a spell.
Sad to say, Ishmael passed on and was laid to rest in a spot named Nahom.
The daughters of Ishmael were heartbroken over their father’s death and their hard times in the wild; they began complainin’ against my father for bringin’ ‘em outta Jerusalem, wailin’: “Our father’s gone, and we’ve roamed far and wide in the wild, sufferin’ from hunger, thirst, and weariness. After all this, are we gonna starve out here?”
So they grumbled at my father and me, eager to make tracks back to Jerusalem.
Laman piped up to Lemuel and the sons of Ishmael, sayin’: “Let’s take our father out, and our brother Nephi too, who’s tryin’ to be the big boss over us, thinkin’ he’s better’n us just ‘cause he’s the youngest.”
He claimed that the Lord had spoken to him and that angels were bringin’ him messages. But see here, we know he’s just spinnin’ tales, tryin’ to pull the wool over our eyes, thinkin' he’ll lead us into the wild for his own gain, aiming to be a king and boss us around how he pleases. And this stirred my brother Laman into a real tizzy.
But the Lord was with us, pourin’ out His voice with plenty for ‘em, chastening ‘em right good; after that, they turned away from their anger and repented of their wrongdoings, so the Lord blessed us with food again, keepin' us from starvin’.
