Well now, it sure did happen that we were givin' thanks to the Good Lord and set out together, and we was workin' on some fancy timbers. The Lord showed me a bit here and there on how to shape those boards for the ship.
Now me, Nephi, I didn’t follow the usual ways of folks for buildin’ a ship, nor did I shape it up like the townsfolk would. Nope, I built it just how the Lord pointed me to, so it weren’t by no human blueprints.
I, Nephi, climbed that mountain time after time, prayin’ to the Lord, and boy did He show me some mighty wonders.
Well, after I got that ship all built up like the Lord told me to, my brothers looked it over and saw it was mighty fine work, good enough to make 'em humble once again before the Lord.
Then the voice of the Lord came to my father, sayin’ we best get off our horses and down into that ship we built.
So, the next day rollin’ in, after we had rustled up a whole heap of fruits and critters from the wild, and plenty of sweet honey, and all our supplies like the Lord told us, we packed 'er up good and proper and got into the ship with all we could carry, from seeds to family, each one takin' what fit their age; we all climbed on board, wives and young’uns included.
Now, my father had two boys in this wild country; the first was named Jacob, and the other younger one was Joseph.
Once we were all aboard the ship and had our goods in tow as instructed, we set sail into that great ocean, blowin’ across the waves towards the promised land.
After we’d been blown along by the wind for a heap of days, I tell ya, my brothers, along with the sons of Ishmael and their gals, got a bit too merry, startin’ to sing and dance all wild-like, forgettin’ who brought us there in the first place; they got haughty and rowdy.
Well, I, Nephi, felt a shiver of fear run through me, thinkin’ the Lord might get mad and sink us down to the bottom of the sea; so I spoke to ‘em real serious, but lo and behold, they got riled up at me, shoutin’ that they weren’t gonna have little brother bossin’ ‘em around.
And wouldn’t you know, Laman and Lemuel grabbed me up, bound me tight with rope, and treated me rough; but the Lord allowed it to show just how He could flex His muscle, fulfillin' what He said about the wicked.
So, when they had me all tied up tight that I couldn’t budge, that compass the Lord prepared just stopped workin’.
Thus, they were plum confused on where to steer the ship, and a fierce storm popped up, tossin’ us around for three days, and they got real frightened, thinkin’ they was fixin’ to drown; still, they didn’t let me loose.
Then came the fourth day, and that storm just kept gettin’ wilder.
We were about to be swallowed right up in the sea’s embrace. After a few days of gettin’ tossed about, my brothers realized the Lord’s not-so-happy hand was upon ‘em, and they’d sink if they didn’t change their wicked ways; so they came up to me and untied my wrists, which were sore and swollen, and my ankles too, lookin' like sausages from bein' bound.
But I set my eyes on God and praised Him all day, never complainin’ about the hard times I was goin’ through.
Now, my father, Lehi, had a whole lot to say to 'em, and to the sons of Ishmael too; but they were spoutin' threats at anyone who dared speak for me, while my folks, bein' not so spry, had suffered so much worry over their kids that they ended up laid low in sickness.
With all the grit and sorrow weighin’ down on ‘em from the iniquities of my brothers, they were near the end of their rope, about to slip away into the arms of death; yes, their grey heads were ready to rest in the dust, closin’ their eyes forever.
And them two young'uns, Jacob and Joseph, needed more than just a bit of food, and you can bet they were worried sick ‘cause of their mama’s troubles; my wife, bless her heart, with her tears and prayers, couldn't quite soften the hearts of my brothers enough to let me go.
There was nothin’ but God’s power, threatenin' ‘em with destruction, that could change their hearts; so when they saw the sea about to take ‘em, they felt that remorse for what they’d done, enough to set me free.
And when they did let me loose, sure enough, I grabbed that compass, and it worked just as I wanted it to. I sent up a prayer to the Lord, and right after that, the winds died down, the storm calmed, and all was still.
Then, I, Nephi, took the reins of that ship and guided us right towards the promised land.
Sure enough, after sailin’ on for many days, we landed on that promised land; we stepped off onto the dry ground, pitched our tents, and called it our new home.
Next, we got to workin’ the land, plantin’ seeds; we put every seed we had from Jerusalem right into the dirt, and wouldn’t you know, they sprouted like wildflowers; we were blessed with plenty.
As we wandered through the promised land, we stumbled upon a heap of critters in the woods: cows and oxen, donkeys and horses, goats and wild goats, all kinds of game that’d do a body good. Plus, we dug up all sorts of shiny metal too, gold, silver, and copper.
