Well, it happened that the good Lord gave me a nudge, so I set to work makin' me some plates outta ore to carve the tale of my kin. On them plates I carved not just my own story, but also the wanderin's and prophesyin' of my old man; had a few of my own visions etched on there too.
Truth be told, I didn’t reckon at the time that the Lord had a plan for me makin’ those plates; but alas, I engraved my father’s record, the family tree, and most everything we went through while roamin’ the wilderness right on those first plates I mentioned. So, the happenings before I crafted those plates are surely more lingeringly noted on the first batch.
Once I got those plates done per the Lord’s orders, I, Nephi, got another command to jot down the ministry and the more important and precious bits, all them parts that would guide my kin who’ll be plowin’ this land, and for other wise purposes that the Lord knows all about.
So, I, Nephi, made another record on some other plates, providin’ a more detailed account of the battles, squabbles, and ruin our folks faced. I done this and told my people what to do once I was outta the picture; these plates were meant to be passed down from generation to generation, or from one prophet to the next, until the Lord gives further instructions.
And y’all’ll get to hear the tale of how I made these plates down the road; and for now, I’ll follow through on what I’ve said, doin’ this so that the more sacred stuff might be kept for my folks to learn from.
Now, I ain’t gon' write on these plates unless I reckon it’s somethin’ holy. And if I slip up, just remember they did too way back when; not that I’m tryin’ to excuse myself 'cause of them, but just ‘cause I got a bit of weakness in me like any man.
Some folks hold things in high regard for body and soul, while others just stomp ‘em into the dust. Yep, even the very God of Israel gets trampled on; I mean to say, they treat him like he don’t matter, payin’ no heed to the wise words he’s tryin’ to share.
Now, just looky here, he will show up like the angel said, six hundred years after my father hightailed it from Jerusalem.
And the world, all twisted up with sin, will treat him like he’s less than nothin’; so they'll whip him, and he takes it; they’ll hit him, and he puts up with it. Yep, they’ll spit on him, and he just takes it all, ‘cause he’s full of love and patience for all us hard-headed humans.
The God of our forebears, who got us out of Egypt and kept us safe in the wild, the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, will give himself up, just like the angel said, as a man into the clutches of evil folks, to get lifted up, as Zenock foretold, and nailed up, as Neum said, and buried in a grave, as Zenos told, which he mentioned about the three days of darkness as a sign of his death for those livin’ on the isles of the sea, especially the house of Israel.
The prophet spoke thusly: The Lord God’ll surely pay a visit to all the house of Israel on that day; some will hear his voice ‘cause they’re righteous, brings ‘em great joy and salvation, while others will feel the thunders, lightnin’, tempests, fires and dark smoke, the ground openin’ up, and mountains bein’ tossed about.
And all these things gotta happen, says the prophet Zenos. And the rocks are gonna crack under the weight of all this, and ‘cause of the earth groanin’, many kings from the isles of the sea gonna feel the Spirit of God workin’ on ‘em, shoutin’, “The God of nature suffers!”
And as for them folks in Jerusalem, says the prophet, they’ll get a beatin’ from every one ‘round, ‘cause they’re the ones who crucified the God of Israel and turned their hearts away, tossin’ aside the signs and wonders, and the power and glory of the Almighty.
‘Cause they turned their hearts aside, saith the prophet, and disrespected the Holy One of Israel, they’re gonna wander in the flesh, meet their end, and become a jest and a curse, hated by all nations.
But when that day comes, says the prophet, when they stop turnin’ their hearts away from the Holy One of Israel, then he’ll recall the covenants he made with their forefathers.
Yup, then he’ll gather in the folks from the isles of the sea; all the kin of the house of Israel will be rounded up, says the Lord, just like the prophet Zenos said, from every corner of the earth.
And every one of the earth will witness the salvation of the Lord, says the prophet; every nation, tribe, tongue, and folks will be blessed.
And I, Nephi, wrote all this down for my kin, hopin’ to persuade ‘em to remember the Lord their Redeemer.
So, I’m talkin’ to all the house of Israel, hopin’ they’d take hold of these words.
'Cause I've been workin' in the spirit, feelin' more weary than a worn-out saddle ‘cause of those still in Jerusalem; if the Lord hadn’t been merciful to show me what’s up with ‘em like He did with them old prophets, I’d be lost too.
And He surely did show the old prophets all about ‘em, and He showed many about us too; so we gotta know about ‘em ‘cause it’s all laid out on them brass plates.
Now it came to pass that I, Nephi, did share these truths with my brothers; and it came to pass that I read ‘em plenty from the brass plates, so they could know about the Lord’s dealings in other lands with old folks.
And I read ‘em a heap from Moses’ books; but to get ‘em to truly believe in the Lord their Redeemer, I read from the prophet Isaiah; for I believed in makin’ all those scriptures relatable, so it’d be for our good and learnin’.
So I said to ‘em: Listen close to the words of the prophet, you who are the leftover kin of Israel, the ones who got a bit broken off; hear the prophet’s words meant for all Israel, and take ‘em to heart, so y’all can have hope just like your brethren from whom you’ve been separated; for that’s how the prophet laid it out.
