Well now, it happened that the Good Lord whispered to my old man, Lehi, even in a dream, and said to him: “You’re a blessed feller, Lehi, for what you’ve done; your faithfulness in telling this folks what I commanded’s commendable, but they’re lookin’ to take your life.”
Then the Lord gave my pa a command in another dream, tellin’ him to pack up the family and skedaddle out into the wilds.
And sure enough, he followed what the Lord told him, obeyin’ the call to venture forth.
So off he went, hittin’ the trail into the wilderness. Left behind his homestead, the land where he struck it rich, his gold and silver, and all them fine belongings, takin’ naught but his kin, some grub, and tents to haul into the wilds.
He made his way down near the shores by the Red Sea, wanderin’ in the wilderness close to its edge, travelin’ with his family, which included my mama, Sariah, and my big brothers, Laman, Lemuel, and Sam.
After three days of wanderin’, he set up his tent in a holler next to a river.
Then he piled up some stones and crafted an altar, offerin’ it to the Good Lord and givin’ thanks to our God.
He named that river Laman, ‘cause it flowed into the Red Sea; that valley lay just near the mouth of it.
When the old man saw that river pourin’ into the Red Sea, he turned to Laman and said: “I wish you could be like this here river, always flowin’ into the fountain of all that is good!”
And he also turned to Lemuel, sayin’: “I wish you could be like this here valley, steadfast and strong, holdin’ tight to the Lord’s commandments!”
Now, he spoke this ‘cause Laman and Lemuel were as stubborn as mules; they grumbled ‘bout many things, sayin’ their father was just a dreamer leadin’ ‘em away from Jerusalem, leavin’ behind their treasures to bite the dust in the wilderness. They claimed he was just followin’ some fanciful notions of his heart.
Thus, Laman and Lemuel, bein' the oldest, grumbled against their old man ‘cause they didn’t know the ways of the Good Lord who crafted ‘em.
They didn’t believe that Jerusalem, that grand ol’ town, could ever be brought low like the prophets said. They were like those folks in Jerusalem who wanted to do my father in.
Then it happened that my father spoke to them in the valley of Lemuel with a power fillin’ him up, and it shook their very frames. He befuddled ‘em so much that they didn’t dare speak out against him; so, they followed what he told them.
My old man made his home in a tent.
And it came to pass that I, Nephi, though just a sprout, was big as a horse, and I had a strong yearning to peek into the mysteries of God. So, I cried out to the Good Lord; lo and behold, He visited me and softened my heart, makin’ me believe all that my father said; so I didn’t raise a ruckus like my brothers.
I had a good chat with Sam, spillin’ the beans on what the Lord had shared with me through His Holy Spirit. And he ended up havin’ faith in my words.
But Laman and Lemuel, them two hardheads, wouldn’t listen to what I said; it grieved me, and I cried out to the Lord for their sake.
Then the Good Lord spoke to me, declarin’: “You’re a blessed soul, Nephi, for your faith; you’ve searched for me diligent-like, with a humble heart.”
And as long as you keep my commandments, you’ll thrive, and I’ll lead you to a promised land; a land I’ve prepared specially for you, a place that’s the finest of all lands.
And if your brothers turn against you, they’ll be cut off from my presence.
And as long as you stick to my commandments, you’ll rise to be a leader and teacher among your kin.
For when they rebel against me, I’ll lay a fierce curse on ‘em, and they won’t have a lick of power over your descendants unless they rebel, too.
If they do rebel against me, they’ll become a thorn in the side of your children, stirrin’ ‘em up to remember the right ways.
