The Savior'll shine bright for the folks out yonder and set the captives free—Oh, Israel’ll be rounded up strong-like in them last days—Noblemen will be like mamas to ‘em—Take a gander at Isaiah 49. ‘Bout 588–570 B.C.
Now listen here: O ye children of Israel, all ya who got cut off and tossed out ‘cause them wicked shepherds ain’t been lookin’ out for my people; yessiree, all y’all who been scattered here and yonder, you’re part of my kin, O house of Israel. Hear me, you far-off lands; pay heed, for the Lord called me right from the start; from my mama’s womb he whispered my name.
He’s sharpened my tongue like a keen blade; in the shade of his hand he’s kept me tucked away, polished like a fine arrow; in his quiver he’s stashed me good.
And he said to me: You’re my servant, O Israel, and I’ll get the glory from ya.
I then said, I reckon I’ve worked my fingers to the bone, run outta steam for naught and wasted; surely my reckonin’ is with the Lord, and my efforts with my God.
Now listen up, says the Lord—that formed me from the get-go to be his servant, to bring Jacob back to him—though Israel ain’t gathered yet, I’ll sure shine bright in the eyes of the Lord, and my God’ll be my strength.
He said: It ain’t too big a chore for ya to be my servant to lift up the tribes of Jacob, and to bring back the folks of Israel. I’ll also make you a light for the Gentiles, so you can be my salvation clear to the ends of the earth.
The Lord, the Redeemer of Israel, his Holy One, says to him who folks underappreciate, to him the nations can’t stand, to the servant of rulers: Kings shall see and rise up, princes’ll worship, ‘cause the Lord’s been faithful.
The Lord has spoken: At the right time I heard ya, O isles of the sea, and in a day of salvation I came to your aid; I’ll keep ya safe, and offer you my servant as a covenant for the people, to firm up the earth, to hand down the empty lands to inherit.
So you can tell the prisoners: Get on out; to them sittin' in the dark: Show yourselves. They’ll graze along the way, and their pastures will be high up in the hills.
They won't go hungry or thirsty, nor will the heat or sun scorch ‘em; ‘cause the one who’s merciful will guide ‘em, even to the cool waters he’ll lead ‘em.
And I’ll clear the way across all my mountains; my highways’ll be made grand.
And then, O house of Israel, look, they’ll come from way out yonder; and lookie here, from the north and the west; and these folks from the land of Sinim.
Sing, O heavens; and be glad, O earth; ‘cause the feet of them in the east shall be steady; and holler out in song, O mountains; for they won’t be troubled any longer; for the Lord’s comforted his people, and he’ll be kind to his hurting ones.
But, behold, Zion’s sayin’: The Lord’s turned his back on me, and my Lord’s forgot me—but he’ll show that he never has.
Can a woman forget her nursing babe, feelin’ no pity for the child she bore? Sure, some may forget, but I’ll never forget you, O house of Israel.
Look here, I’ve carved your name right into the palms of my hands; your walls are always in my sight.
Your children’ll rush to take down them who’d destroy ya; and those who made you empty will pack up and leave.
Lift up your eyes all ‘round and see; all these folks are gatherin’ up, and they'll come to ya. And as I live, says the Lord, you’ll surely dress yourself in ‘em all, like a fine adornment, and tie ‘em on like a bride.
For your ruins and desolate places, and that land of your wreckage, will soon be filled up ‘cause of all them folks; and those who swallered ya up will be far off.
The children you have after losin’ your first will once more say in your ears: This place is too tight for me; make me some room, ‘cause I wanna settle down.
Then you’ll think to yourself: Who brought me these, seein’ I’ve lost my kids and I’m left alone, lookin’ for a spot? And who raised these? Behold, I was all by my lonesome; where did these come from?
Thus says the Lord God: Looky here, I’ll raise my hand to the Gentiles, and set up my flag for the folks; and they’ll haul your boys in their arms, and your daughters’ll be carried on their shoulders.
And kings’ll be like mamas to you, and their queens like nursing mothers; they’ll bow down with their faces to the dirt, and lick up the dust from your boots; and you’ll know that I’m the Lord; for they won’t be ashamed who wait for me.
Can the prey be snatched from the strong, or the lawful captives be set free?
But the Lord says, even the captives of the strong will be freed, and the prey from the terrible will be let go; ‘cause I’ll fight with those who’re out to get you, and I’ll save your children.
And I’ll make ‘em who push you around eat their own flesh; they’ll be drunk on their own blood like it’s sweet wine; and all flesh will know that I, the Lord, am your Savior and your Redeemer, the Mighty One of Jacob.
