Well now, it came to pass that I, Nephi, rode back to my pa’s camp after chattin’ with the Good Lord.
And it came to pass that he says to me, “Son, I had a dream where the Lord told me that you and your brothers need to head back to Jerusalem.”
For you see, Laban’s got the scriptures of the Jews all penned down, along with our family tree carved on some brass plates.
So, the Lord has given me the word that you and your brothers oughta go on over to Laban’s place, hunt for them records, and haul 'em back out here into the wild.
And now, I see your brothers grumblin’, claimin’ it’s too tough a task I laid on 'em; but I reckon it ain't me who put it on 'em, it’s the Lord’s command.
So off you go, my boy, for the Lord’s got your back, ‘cause you ain’t been complainin’.
And it came to pass that I, Nephi, told my father, “I’m fixin’ to do what the Lord has asked, for I know the Lord doesn’t give us no tasks without makin’ a way for us to get 'em done.”
And lo and behold, when my father heard my words he was mighty pleased, for he knew I’d been blessed by the Lord.
So me, Nephi, and my brothers saddled up our gear and set out into the wilderness toward the land of Jerusalem.
And it came to pass that once we arrived in Jerusalem, I and my brothers huddled together to put our heads together.
We drew straws to see who’d make the trip into Laban’s house. The draw fell on Laman, and off he went into Laban’s place, chattin’ with him while he lounged at home.
He asked Laban for them records written on the brass plates, which held the lineage of our kin.
But gosh darn it, Laban got mighty sore and kicked him outta there, refusin’ to part with the records. He said, “You’re a thievin’ scoundrel, and I’ll make you pay for it!”
But Laman skedaddled outta there and told us what Laban had done. We started feelin’ pretty low, and my brothers wanted to head back to our father in the wild.
But I told 'em, “As the Lord lives, and as we continue livin’, we ain't turnin' tail on our father in the wilderness until we do what the Lord’s ordered us to do.”
So let’s stick to the plan and keep the Lord’s commandments; let’s head back to our father’s land, 'cause he’s left behind gold, silver, and a heap of other riches. He’s done this all in line with the Lord’s commands.
For he was aware that Jerusalem’s fixin’ to be wiped off the map, on account of the wickedness of the folks there.
For they’ve turned their backs on the prophets’ words. So, if my father stays in the land after bein’ told to skedaddle, well, it'll mean his end! So he’s got to high-tail it outta there.
Now, it’s the Lord’s wisdom that we need those records so our young'uns can learn the speech of our ancestors.
And also so we can hand down the words spoken by all them holy prophets since time began, right up till now.
And it came to pass that I laid it out this way to persuade my brothers to stay true to the commands of the Lord.
Soon enough, we made our way back to our father’s land, gatherin’ up our gold, silver, and all our shiny treasures.
And after we got our hands full, we headed back to Laban’s house once more.
And so we went in and asked Laban to hand over them records on account of the brass plates, and in exchange, we’d offer him our gold, silver, and all the valuable stuff we had.
But when Laban laid eyes on our goods, his greed kicked in heavy, and he drove us out, sendin’ his goons to take us down so he could snag our treasure.
So, we lit outta there quick and left our stuff behind, which ended up in Laban’s greedy hands.
And it came to pass that we took off into the wild, and Laban’s thugs didn’t catch us, so we found a spot to hide in a crag in the rock.
And it came to pass that Laman was fired up at me and my father; Lemuel joined in as well, listenin’ to Laman and throwin’ harsh words at us, their younger kin, smacking us down with a stick.
While they were givin’ us a good whack, an angel of the Lord appeared and stood before 'em, saying, “Why are you wallopin’ your younger brother? Don’t you know the Lord’s picked him to be your leader, on account of your wrongdoings? You’re all gonna head back to Jerusalem, and the Lord will hand Laban right into your hands.”
And after the angel finished talkin’, he rode off.
But lo and behold, once the angel was gone, Laman and Lemuel started complainin’ again, sayin’, “How can it be that the Lord would deliver Laban into our grip? He’s a powerful man, can command fifty, shoot, he might even take down fifty; so why couldn’t we?”
