Well, after we hit the trail and made our way into the wild, we found our old pop, and bless his heart, he was cheerin’ right up, and my ma, Sariah, was grinnin’ like a cat that got the cream, 'cause she’d been worryin’ somethin’ fierce about us.
She thought we’d kicked the bucket out there in the wilderness; reckon she gave my father a piece of her mind, callin' him a dreamer and sayin’: "Looky here, you’ve led us off from our home sweet home, and now my boys are gone, and we’re gonna dry up and blow away out here!"
That’s how my ma had been jawin’ at my old man.
Then my father, he told her straight, “I reckon I’m a visionary, that’s true enough; if I hadn't seen what I seen from the Big Guy up there, I wouldn’t have understood how good God is, and maybe I woulda stayed back in Jerusalem, rustlin’ with the rest of my kinfolk.”
“Now looky here, I got a promise of a land that’s as fine as a new saddle, and I’m mighty pleased about it; surely the Lord's gonna deliver my boys from old Laban and bring 'em back out to us in this wild.”
And with that kind of talk, my father, Lehi, sure did soothe my mother, Sariah, while we were makin’ our way through the wilderness headin’ for Jerusalem to snag that record of the Jews.
When we got back to our daddy’s camp, you bet your boots their joy was overflowin’, and my mother felt right at ease.
She spoke up, sayin’: “Now I can say for certain that the Lord told my husband to skedaddle into the wilderness; and I know for a fact that the Lord kept watch over my boys, snatched 'em outta Laban’s grip, and gave 'em the strength to do what He asked of 'em.” And she spoke it loud and clear.
Well, they were a-hollerin' with joy, and they laid down some sacrifices and burnt offerings for the Lord, givin’ thanks to the God of Israel.
Once they finished givin’ thanks to the Good Lord, my father, Lehi, took a gander at the records carved on those brass plates, and he started to read ‘em from the get-go.
He noticed right off that they held the five books of Moses, tellin’ the tale of how this here world got made, ’long with the story of Adam and Eve, our very first folks;
And a record of the Jews from way back, goin’ all the way down to when Zedekiah took the throne of Judah;
Also, there were prophecies from the holy prophets, reachin’ back to the start, all the way down to when Zedekiah took his reign; plus plenty of prophecies spoke by Jeremiah’s lips.
Then my father, Lehi, stumbled on a genealogy of his kinfolk on those brass plates; that’s when he realized he was from the line of Joseph; that same Joseph who was Jacob's boy and sold off to Egypt, yet saved by the hand of the Lord to keep his daddy, Jacob, and their whole clan from starving to death.
And that same God who rescued 'em also led 'em out of that there Egypt, free as a bird.
Thus, my father, Lehi, discovered the family tree of his ancestors. And wouldn’t you know it, Laban was also of Joseph’s line, so him and his folks were the keepers of them records.
Once my father laid eyes on all that, the Spirit filled him up, and he started prophesizing 'bout his offspring—
That these brass plates would make their way to all nations, kinfolk, tongues, and folks from his bloodline.
So he asserted that these brass plates wouldn’t ever fade away, nor would time wear them down. And he prophesied a heap o' things 'bout his heritage.
Now, so far, me and my old man had been followin’ the orders the Lord laid down for us.
We had fetched those records the Lord told us to grab, sifting through 'em and findin’ they were mighty fine; reckon they were worth a whole lot to us, so we could pass on the Lord’s commandments to our young’uns.
Meaning, it was wise of the Lord that we took 'em along with us as we rode through the wilderness toward that promised land.
