Well now, I reckon y’all oughta know that after my old man, Lehi, finished spoutin' his prophecies 'bout our kin, the Lord spoke to him again, sayin’ it wasn’t right for him to drag his family out into the wild all by his lonesome; he needed to send his boys to find themselves some wives, so they could raise up a family for the Lord in the promised land.
So it turned out that the Lord told him that I, Nephi, and my brothers oughta hightail it back to Jerusalem to fetch Ishmael and his folks to join us in the wilderness.
So I, Nephi, set out again into that wild terrain with my brothers to make our way up to Jerusalem.
Eventually, we arrived at Ishmael's place, and we hit it off with him, to the point we could share some words from the Lord with him.
And right then, the Lord softened Ishmael's heart and his family's hearts too, so they saddled up and joined us on our trek down into the wilderness to where our old man was settin' up camp.
But as we roamed through the wild, wouldn’t ya know it, Laman and Lemuel, two of Ishmael’s daughters, and two of Ishmael’s sons along with their families, turned their backs on us; yep, they rebelled against me, Nephi, Sam, and their own father, Ishmael, as well as his wife and their other three daughters.
In this here ruckus, they got mighty eager to skedaddle back to Jerusalem.
Now I, Nephi, bein’ real sad 'bout their stubborn hearts, I called out to ‘em, sayin’, “Hey, Laman and Lemuel! You’re my older brothers, so how come you’re bein’ so hard-hearted and blind to what’s true, that ya need me, your younger brother, to guide y’all and set the right example?” 
“Why ain't y’all listenin’ to the Lord's words?”
“And what’s the deal with y’all forgettin’ that y’all laid eyes on an angel from the Lord?”
“Yeah, and how could you forget the mighty things the Lord's done for us, savin’ us from Laban and helpin’ us get that record?”
“Think on this: how could ya ignore that the Lord's capable of all things He wills for us folks, if only we put our faith in Him? So let’s be faithful, partners.”
“If we're faithful, we’ll end up with that promised land; and y’all gonna see in due time that the Lord’s word about Jerusalem's downfall is gonna come true; everything the Lord said about that city’s destruction’s gotta come to pass.”
'Cause looky here, the Lord’s Spirit won’t be strugglin’ with ‘em much longer; they’ve rejected the prophets and thrown Jeremiah into the slammer. They even tried to take my father’s life, drivin’ him right outta the land.
Now listen up, if y’all think about headin’ back to Jerusalem, you’ll just end up perishin’ with ‘em. But if y’all got the choice, go up to the land, and remember what I’m tellin’ ya: if you go back there, you’re bound to run into all sorts of trouble; that's what the Spirit of the Lord is tellin’ me to say.
Well, when I, Nephi, got done sayin’ all this to my brothers, they got riled up. They laid their hands on me because they were fit to be tied, and they bound me with cords, tryin' to take my life, leavin’ me out in the wilderness to be a meal for the critters.
But I got down and prayed to the Lord, sayin’, “Oh Lord, by my faith in you, will ya save me from my brothers? Give me the strength to break these bonds that hold me.”
And just like that, when I said them words, the ropes came off my hands and feet, and I was standin’ right there in front of my brothers, ready to speak to 'em again.
But wouldn't ya know it, they were madder than a bull in a china shop and tried to grab hold of me again; but one of Ishmael’s daughters, along with her mama and a son of Ishmael, pleaded with them, and it touched their hearts, so they stopped tryin’ to snatch my life away.
Then they felt real sorry for their wicked ways, bowin’ down before me, beggin’ me to forgive 'em for what they’d done.
I told 'em I forgave ‘em flat-out for all that mess, and I urged ‘em to pray to the Lord their God for forgiveness. And sure enough, they did just that. After they finished prayin’ to the Lord, we got back on the trail toward our father's tent.
Eventually, we made our way back to our father’s tent. When I, my brothers, and all of Ishmael's crew rolled in, they offered their thanks to the Lord their God and brought forth sacrifices and burnt offerings for Him.
