The Book of Jacob the Brother of Nephi
Well, let me tell ya what Jacob preached to his folks. He sure knew how to put a fella in his place who was tryin’ to mess with the good word of Christ. Just a lil’ bit ‘bout the history of them Nephites.
Now Jacob and Joseph were real keen on changin’ folks’ minds to believe in Jesus and to follow his commandments—Nephi done passed on—And them Nephites were gettin’ real wicked-like. We’re talkin’ ‘bout five hundred forty-four to four hundred twenty-one years ‘fore Christ.
So, it turns out, ‘bout fifty-five years had gone by since Lehi left Jerusalem; so Nephi told me, Jacob, to take care of these here small plates where all this stuff’s written down.
He told me to jot down a few of the most important things on these plates, and not to mess too much with the history of our people called the Nephites.
He said that the history of his folks would be on his other plates, and I should keep these plates safe and pass ‘em down to my kids for generations.
If there was somethin’ sacred to preach about, or a big ol’ revelation, or prophesize, I should etch the main points on these plates, and talk about ‘em as much as I could, for Christ’s sake, and for our folks.
Seein’ as how we had plenty of faith and were real anxious, it was clear to us what was gonna happen to our people.
We also got a heap of revelations and plenty of prophecy; so we knew ‘bout Christ and his kingdom that was fixin’ to come.
So we worked our tails off tryin’ to get our people to come to Christ and enjoy the goodness of God, so they could find rest and not make Him mad and miss out, just like back in the day when the Israelites were wanderin’ in the wilderness.
We’d be mighty thankful if we could convince everyone not to rebel against God, not to make Him angry, but to believe in Christ, see his death, and bear his cross and the shame of this world; so I, Jacob, am takin’ it on myself to follow what my brother Nephi told me to do.
Now Nephi was gettin’ up in years, and he knew his time was near; so he went and appointed a man to be king and ruler over his folks, just like the other kings had done.
The folks loved Nephi a whole lot; he was their protector, wieldin’ Laban’s sword to keep ‘em safe, and workin’ hard all his days for their good—
So the people really wanted to remember his name. Whoever took over after him was called second Nephi, third Nephi, and so on, just like them kings’ reigns; and folks would call ‘em that, no matter what name they had.
And then Nephi passed away.
Now the folks who wasn’t Lamanites were Nephites; but they got called Nephites, Jacobites, Josephites, Zoramites, Lamanites, Lemuelites, and Ishmaelites.
But I, Jacob, ain't gonna keep callin’ ‘em all those names; I’ll just call ‘em Lamanites if they’re tryin’ to mess with the Nephites, and them who are friendly to Nephi, I’ll just call ‘em Nephites or the people of Nephi, just like them reigns of the kings.
Well, it happened that the Nephites, under the second king, started to get a little hard-hearted and indulge in some wicked ways, kinda like David back in the day, wantin’ a bunch of wives and concubines, and Solomon, his boy.
Yup, they started hankerin’ after gold and silver, gettin’ a bit proud-like.
So I, Jacob, laid down these words to ‘em as I taught ‘em in the temple, after I got my task straight from the Lord.
Me and my brother Joseph had been made priests and teachers for our people, thanks to Nephi.
And we put our heart into our work for the Lord, takin’ on the responsibility to answer for the people’s sins if we didn’t teach ‘em God’s word real good; so we labored hard so none of their blood would be on our hands; otherwise, it would weigh on us, and we wouldn't be found clean on that final day.
