Well now, lemme tell ya what Jacob, Nephi's brother, had to say to the Nephites after Nephi kicked the bucket:
Now, listen up y’all, I’m Jacob and I got a job to do for God, so I’m here tryin’ to keep my act together and clean my clothes of your wickedness. I came to the temple today to share with you what the Good Lord wants ya to know.
Y’all know I’ve been pretty darn good at my calling, but today I’m feelin’ a heavy weight on my heart ‘cause I care a whole lot more about yer souls than I ever did before.
Well, looky here, so far you’ve been listenin’ to what the Lord’s said to you.
But now, you need to lend me yer ears and understand that with the help of the Big Man upstairs, I can tell ya what’s goin’ on in your hearts—you’re startin’ to wander off into sin, and let me tell ya, it’s downright nasty in my eyes, and in God’s too.
It pains me to tell ya these things, puttin’ me to shame in front of my Maker, but I gotta call out the bad stuff goin’ on in your hearts.
And it’s just as hard to talk openly ‘bout these matters ‘fore your wives and kids, whose feelings are as tender and pure as a daisy in bloom, and God sure loves that.
I reckon they came here hopin’ to hear some good news from God, a word that can mend their broken spirits.
So it weighs heavy on my heart that ‘cause of the strict orders from God, I gotta shame y’all for your wrongdoings and pile on the hurt for those who’re already hurt, rather than comfortin’ ‘em; and those who ain’t hurt ain’t gettin’ none of God’s good word but are gettin’ jabbed with daggers that tear at their souls and smart real bad.
But even with how mighty tough this is, I gotta stick to God’s orders and lay it all out there about your deeds and mischief, in front of the good folks with pure hearts and broken hearts, all under the watchful eye of Almighty God.
So I gotta tell ya the straight dope according to the plain ol’ word of God. For when I asked the Lord, He told me to get up to the temple tomorrow and share what He was gonna give me for this folks.
Now, listen close, my brothers, here’s the message I’m lettin’ loose: many of y’all are lookin’ for gold, silver, and all sorts of shiny stuff in this land overflowing with promise for you and your kin.
The good Lord’s smiled on ya, helpin’ ya gather all these riches; but 'cause some of you got more than others, you’ve puffed up your chests with pride, struttin’ around like roosters and pickin’ on your buddies thinkin’ you’re all that and a side of biscuits.
So I’m askin’ you, do you reckon God’s okay with that? I’m here to tell ya, Nope. He’s not happy with y’all, and if you keep this up, His judgment’s gonna come swoopin’ down on ya quick.
Oh, how I wish He’d show you He can take ya down a notch, just with one look, He can lay ya flat in the dust!
I sure wish He’d clean you up from this mess and sin. And oh, I hope you’d listen to His commands and not let your pride take your souls down the drain!
Think ‘bout your brothers like they’re folks just like you, and be generous with what ya got, so they can have a good life too.
But before you go chasin’ after riches, why not chase after God’s kingdom first?
After you’ve got that hope in Christ, riches will come, if you’re searchin’ for ‘em to do good—to cover the naked, feed the hungry, free the captives, and help the sick and the needy.
And now, my brothers, I’ve talked about pride; and if you’ve been pickin’ on your neighbors ‘cause you felt all high and mighty from what God’s givin’ you, what do ya have to say for that?
Don’t you think that’s downright nasty in the sight of the One who created all of us? Every single one is special to Him, and we’re just dust in the wind anyways; He made us to keep His commandments and glorify Him forever.
So now I’m wrap up talkin’ about pride. If it weren’t for the need to call out a bigger sin, my heart would be singin’ with joy over y’all.
But the Word from God weighs heavy on me ‘cause of your bigger sins. Look here, the Lord said: This crowd's startin’ to go down the wrong path; y’all ain’t understandin’ them scriptures, tryin’ to make excuses for bein’ immoral ‘cause of what was said ‘bout David and Solomon.
Sure enough, David and Solomon had a whole heap of wives and mistresses, which was just plain wrong in my eyes, says the Lord.
So, thus says the Lord, I been leadin’ this group from Jerusalem with a mighty hand, to bring forth a righteous bunch from the good seed of Joseph.
So, I the Lord God ain’t gonna let y’all behave like the folks from back then.
So listen here, my brothers, hear me out, and pay heed to the Lord’s word: No man among y’all better have more than one wife; no mistresses allowed;
Cause I, the Lord God, take delight in women keepin’ their purity. And bein’ immoral is an abomination to me, says the Lord of Hosts.
So this group better keep my commandments, says the Lord of Hosts, or the land’s gonna suffer for their wrongdoings.
‘Cause if I want, says the Lord of Hosts, to bring forth a line of descendants, I’ll tell my people what to do; otherwise they better listen up.
‘Cause I, the Lord, have seen the sorrow and heard the cries of the daughters of my people back in Jerusalem and all over, ‘cause of the wickedness and shameful acts of their husbands.
And I won’t let, says the Lord of Hosts, the cries of the fair women I’ve brought out from Jerusalem, rise up against the men of my people, says the Lord of Hosts.
‘Cause they ain’t gonna lead away my tender daughters ‘cause of their sweet nature, ‘less I hit ‘em hard with curses, even unto destruction; ‘cause they ain’t gonna commit immoral acts like them folks did back in the day, says the Lord of Hosts.
So now, listen up, my brothers, y’all know these commandments were handed down to our father, Lehi; so ya’ve heard ‘em before; and y’all are under some serious scrutiny now ‘cause you’ve done things ya shouldn’t have done.
Look here, you’ve done worse than the Lamanites, our kin. You’ve broken the hearts of your gentle wives and lost the trust of your kids ‘cause of the bad examples you’ve set; and the cries from their hearts are risin’ up to God against ya. And ‘cause of how strict the Word of God is comin’ down on ya, many hearts have withered away, pierced with deep wounds.
