All them prophets was givin' their thanks to the Father in the name of Christ—y’know, Abraham’s sacrifice of Isaac was just like what God and His Only Begotten did—Folks oughta make peace with God through the Atonement—Them Jews gonna turn their backs on the cornerstone. 'Bout 544–421 B.C.
Now, looky here, I, Jacob, been preachin’ a whole lot to my people with my words (but I can’t scribble down much ‘cause it’s mighty hard chippin' our stuff on them plates) and we know whatever we carve on them plates gotta stick around;
But anything else we scribble on other stuff gonna come to nothin’ and disappear; but we can write a few words on them plates, which’ll give our young’uns, and our dear brothers, a smidge of knowledge ‘bout us, or their daddies—
Now this here’s somethin’ we’re real happy ‘bout; and we’re workin’ hard to etch these words on them plates, hopin’ our dear ones and kids gonna take ‘em to heart and learn with joy, not with sadness, nor scorn, concernin’ their first folks.
‘Cause we done wrote these things so they could know we was privy to Christ, and had a hope for his glory many a hundred years before he showed up; and it ain't just us what had hope for his glory, but all them holy prophets before us too.
See, they believed in Christ and worshiped the Father in his name, and we do the same. And that’s why we stick to the law of Moses, ‘cause it points our souls right to Him; and for this reason, it’s blessed to us for doin’ right, just like it was accounted to Abraham in the wilderness for bein’ obedient to God when he offered up his boy Isaac, which is like God and His Only Begotten.
So, we dig into them prophets and got us plenty revelations and the spirit of prophecy; and with all these witnesses we hold onto hope, and our faith gets real sturdy, so much so that we can truly command in Jesus’ name and the trees of the field gotta listen, or the mountains, or the waves of the sea.
But still, the Lord God shows us where we’re weak, so we can know it’s by His grace and His big ol’ kindness to us folks that we can do these things.
Looky here, the works of the Lord are truly wondrous. It’s beyond our reach to figure out all His mysteries; folks can’t find all His ways unless He lets 'em know; so don’t be hatin’ on God’s revelations, y’all.
‘Cause look, it’s by the power of His word that man appeared on this here earth, and this earth was made by the power of His word. So if God can speak and the world comes to be, and speak and man shows up, then why ain't He able to command the earth, or the stuff He made on it, according to His own will?
So, y’all, don’t be tryin’ to give God advice; just take advice from Him. 'Cause y’all know He counsels with smarts, and justice, and plenty mercy over all His works.
So, beloved brothers, make peace with Him through the atonement of Christ, His Only Begotten Son, and you might get yourselves a resurrection, blessed by the power of the resurrection in Christ, and end up presented as the first-fruits of Christ to God, with faith, and holdin' a good hope of glory in Him before He shows up in the flesh.
And now, y’all, don’t be strugglin’ with me sayin’ all this; ‘cause why not talk ‘bout Christ’s atonement, and aim for a perfect knowledge of Him, just like reaching for the knowledge of the resurrection and the world comin' next?
Look, my brethren, if a fella's gonna prophesy, he oughta do it so folks can understand; 'cause the Spirit tells the truth and don’t fib. So it talks 'bout things as they really are, and things as they really will be; these truths are made real plain for us, for the sake of savin’ our souls. But don’t forget, we ain’t the only ones testifyin’ ‘bout this; that’s right, God spoke to them old prophets too.
But lemme tell ya, them Jews were a stubborn bunch; they be turnin' their noses up at plain words, killin’ them prophets, and chasin' after things they just couldn’t grasp. So on account of their blindness, which came ‘cause they looked past the mark, they gotta trip up; 'cause God took away His plainness from ‘em, and gave 'em all sorts of stuff they couldn’t understand, just ‘cause they wanted it. And since they wanted it, God did it, so they’d stumble.
And now I, Jacob, feelin’ led by the Spirit to prophesy; ‘cause I sense in my spirit workin’ that because them Jews be trippin’, they gonna reject the stone they oughta build on for a solid foundation.
But behold, according to the scriptures, this here stone gonna be the great, the last, and the only solid foundation for them Jews to build on.
And now, my dear ones, how in the world can they, after tossin’ aside that sure foundation, ever build upon it, so it can become the head of their corner?
Looky here, my beloved brethren, I’m gonna lay out this mystery for ya; ‘specially if I don’t get all shaky in the Spirit, and trip up ‘cause I’m worryin’ too much ‘bout you.
