Well, listen up, y'all, do y'all remember readin' them words from that prophet Zenos, what he told the house of Israel, sayin':
Pay attention now, oh house of Israel, and hear my words, I’m a prophet of the Lord.
See here, the Lord’s sayin', He’s gonna liken ya, oh house of Israel, to a tame ol' olive tree, one that a fella took and cared for in his vineyard; it grew, got old, and started to go downhill.
Then one day, the master of the vineyard went out and noticed his olive tree startin’ to wither; he said, “I’ll trim it up, dig around it, and take care of it, hopin’ it’ll sprout some tender new branches and not just waste away.”
Sure enough, he pruned it, dug around it, and took care of it just like he promised.
After a spell, it started to grow a few young, tender branches, but darn if the main top of it didn’t start to fade away.
Then that master of the vineyard saw it and said to his helper, “It just breaks my heart to lose this tree; so go grab some branches off a wild olive tree and bring ‘em here to me; we’ll take off those main branches that’re startin’ to die and toss 'em in the fire to burn.”
And this the Lord of the vineyard said, “I’m takin’ away lots of them young tender branches, and I’ll graft ‘em wherever I want; and it don’t matter if the root of this tree goes away, I might still save the fruit for myself; so I’m takin’ these young tender branches and graftin’ ‘em where I want.”
Now you take them wild olive tree branches and put ‘em in their place; and them ones I took off, I’ll throw into the fire so they don’t clutter up my vineyard.
And sure enough, the Lord’s servant did what the Lord said, added those wild olive tree branches in.
And the Lord made sure it was dug around, pruned, and nourished, sayin’ to his servant, “It pains me to lose this tree; so maybe I can save its roots so they don’t go bad, kept ‘em safe for myself, I did this thing.”
So you go on now; watch that tree and take care of it like I told ya.
And I’m gonna put these where I want in the lowest part of my vineyard, it don’t matter to you; I'm doin' this to keep the original branches safe, and also so I can stash some fruit for the season, 'cause it pains me to lose this tree and the fruit.
Then the Lord of the vineyard went off and hid the natural branches of that tame olive tree in the lowest parts of the vineyard, some in one spot and some in another, according to his wishes.
Well, a heap of time went by, and the Lord of the vineyard called his servant and said, “Come on, let’s head down into the vineyard and do some work.”
So they both went down to work in the vineyard. And the servant said to his master, “Hey now, look here; take a gander at this tree.”
And the Lord of the vineyard looked at the tree with the wild olive branches mixed in; it had sprung up and started to bear fruit. He saw it was doin’ good; the fruit was like the natural fruit.
And he told the servant, “Look here, them wild branches have soaked up moisture from the roots so the roots are strong; and ‘cause they’re strong, the wild branches are makin’ sweet fruit. If we hadn’t put in them branches, this here tree would've been goners. Now, I’m settin’ aside a whole lotta fruit from this tree to keep for myself for when the season comes.”
Then the Lord of the vineyard said to his servant, “Let’s go check out the lowest part of the vineyard and see if the natural branches of the tree have made good fruit too, so I can stash some for myself when it’s time.”
And they headed to where the master had hid the natural branches, and he told the servant, “Look here; he saw the first one had brought forth a pile of fruit; and he saw it was good too. Then he told the servant, “Take some of that fruit and save it for when the time comes, ‘cause I’ve been taking care of it a long time and it’s produced a whole mess of fruit.”
The servant then said to his master, “How’d you come to plant this tree, or this branch, right here? It’s the crummiest spot in all your vineyard.”
And the Lord of the vineyard replied, “Don’t be givin’ me advice; I knew it was a bad spot; I’ve nurtured it this long and you see it’s produced a lotta fruit.”
Then the Lord of the vineyard said again to his servant, “Looky here; I’ve planted another branch of the tree; and you know this spot was worse than the last. But, look at that tree. I’ve taken care of it a long time and it’s brought forth lotsa fruit; so gather it up and stash it for when the time comes, so I can keep it for myself.”
Then the Lord of the vineyard said to his servant again, “Looky here, I got another branch I planted; see, I've taken care of it too, and it’s produced fruit.”
And he said to the servant, “Look at this last one. I planted it in a fine spot; I’ve nurtured it, and part of the tree’s givin’ sweet fruit, while the other part’s givin’ wild fruit; I’ve taken care of this tree just like the rest.”
Then the Lord of the vineyard said to the servant, “Pull off the branches that ain't givin’ good fruit, and throw ‘em in the fire.”
But the servant said, “Hold on now, let’s trim it some more, dig around it, and take care of it a bit longer, maybe it can still produce good fruit for you, so you can stash it when the time comes.”
Then it came to pass that the Lord of the vineyard and his servant took care of all the fruit from the vineyard.
And after a good long while, the Lord said to his servant, “Come on, let’s head back down into the vineyard and work some more. The time’s closin’ in, and the end is comin’ soon; so I need to stash fruit for when the time comes, for myself.”
So the Lord of the vineyard and the servant went down, and they got to the tree where the natural branches had been stripped off and the wild ones added in; and looky there, all kinds of fruit was overloadin’ the tree.
And the Lord of the vineyard tasted all kinds of fruits, checkin’ ‘em one by one. And he said, “Looky here, we’ve been takin' care of this tree a long time now, and I’ve put aside a whole bunch of fruit for myself for the season.”
But look, this time it’s thrown off tons of fruit, and none of it’s no good. And there’s all sorts of bad fruit here; it ain’t worth nothin’, despite all our hard work, and it sure troubles me to think I’ll lose this here tree.
Then the Lord of the vineyard said to the servant, “What we gonna do about this tree, so I can save some good fruit for myself?”
The servant replied, “Well, since you grafted in them wild olive branches, they’ve strengthened the roots, keptin’ ‘em alive and kickin’; looks like they’re still good.”
Then the Lord of the vineyard said to his servant, “That tree ain’t doin’ me no good, and them roots ain’t doin’ me no good as long as it keeps givin’ rotten fruit.
Still, I know those roots are good, and for my own purposes, I’ve kept 'em; ‘cause they’ve been strong enough to keep givin’ good fruit, from them wild branches.
But the wild branches got outta control and are takin’ over the roots; ‘cause them wild branches have overshadowed the roots, now it’s producin’ a whole mess of bad fruit; and since it's makin’ so much bad fruit, it’s startin’ to wither away; soon it’ll ripen and get tossed into the fire unless we do somethin’ to save it.
Then the Lord of the vineyard said to his servant, “Let’s head on down to the lower parts of the vineyard and see if the natural branches brought forth any bad fruit.”
So they went down to the lower parts of the vineyard, and they saw that the fruit from the natural branches had turned rotten too; yep, the first, the second, and the last; they’d all gone bad.
And that last one’s wild fruit had overtaken the part of the tree that used to be good, made that branch just wither away and die.
Then the Lord of the vineyard cried, sayin’ to his servant, “What more could I have done for my vineyard?”
Look here, I knew that all the fruit from my vineyard, except for these, had gone sour. And now these branches that once bore good fruit have now gone rogue too; and now all the trees in my vineyard ain't worth nothin’, except to be chopped down and thrown in the fire.
And look at this last one, whose branch has withered away, I planted it in a fine spot; yep, the one I thought was best of all the land in my vineyard.
And you saw I took down that which was cluttering this good spot, so I could plant this tree in its place.
And you saw that part of it produced good fruit, while the other part brought forth wild fruit; and ‘cause I didn’t pull the branches off and throw 'em in the fire, look, they’ve overrun the good branch till it’s withered away.
And now, look, despite all the care we put into my vineyard, the trees been corrupted, and they ain’t makin’ no good fruit; and I was hopin’ to keep ‘em, to stash some good fruit for when the time came, for myself. But look, they’ve turned into a wild olive tree now, and they ain’t worth a lick except to be chopped down and tossed in the fire; and it sure saddens me to think I’ll lose ‘em.
But what more could I do in my vineyard? Have I eased up on my care, not lookin’ after it? No sir, I’ve been takin’ care of it, diggin’ around it, prunin’ it, and fertilizin’ it; I’ve stretched my hands out nearly all day long, and the time’s runnin’ out. It troubles me to think I’ll have to chop down all the trees of my vineyard and throw ‘em in the fire. Who’s been corruptin’ my vineyard?
Then the servant said to his master, “Ain't it the height of your vineyard—that the branches have overtaken the good roots? And since the branches have outgrown the roots, they’re lookin’ to take strength for themselves. Don’t ya reckon that’s what’s caused your vineyard trees to go bad?”
Then the Lord of the vineyard said to the servant, “Let’s get to it; let’s chop down the trees in the vineyard and toss 'em in the fire so they don’t crowd any more of my vineyard, ‘cause I’ve done all I can. What more could I’ve done for my vineyard?”
But the servant said to the Lord of the vineyard, “Let’s hold off a bit longer.”
And the Lord said, “Alright then, I’ll hold off a bit longer, ‘cause it pains me to lose these trees in my vineyard.”
So let’s take some branches from these I planted in the lower part of my vineyard and graft ‘em back into the tree they came from; and let’s pick from the tree those branches that got the most bitter fruit and stick in the natural branches in their place.
And I’m doin’ this so the tree don’t perish, so maybe I can keep the roots for my own needs.
And lo, the roots from the natural branches of the tree I planted wherever I wanted are still alive; and to keep ‘em for my own purpose, I’ll be takin’ branches from this tree and graftin' them back onto those roots. Yessiree, I’ll be stickin’ back their original branches so I can keep them roots for my own efforts, and when they get strong enough, they might just bear good fruit for me, and maybe I’ll still get some glory from my vineyard’s fruits.
So then they took from the natural tree that’d gone wild and stuck ‘em back onto the natural trees that’d also gone wild.
And they took from the natural trees that had turned wild and grafted ‘em back into their mother tree.
Then the Lord of the vineyard said to the servant, “Don’t pull the wild branches from the trees, ‘cept for the ones that are truly bitter; in ‘em, y’all can graft them like I said.”
We’ll take care of them trees in the vineyard, tidy up the branches; we’ll pick the ripe branches that have to go and toss ‘em in the fire.
I’m doin’ this so the roots can get strong due to their goodness; and the branches’ changes will help the good beat the bad.
Since I’ve kept the natural branches and their roots alive, and grafted the natural branches back into their mom tree, and kept the roots of their mama tree, maybe the trees in my vineyard can produce good fruit again; and I can get joy from the fruits of my vineyard, and maybe, just maybe, I’ll be so pleased I preserved the roots and the branches of the first fruits—
So let’s get to it and call our workers so we can work real hard in the vineyard, makin’ ready that I can bring back the natural fruit, which is good and the most precious of all fruits.
So, let’s go work with all our might one last time, ‘cause the end is closin’ in, and this’ll be the last time I prune my vineyard.
Graft in them branches; start at the end so they can be first, and the first can be last, diggin’ around the trees, both old and young—the first and the last; and the last and the first, so all can get nourished once more before the end comes.
So dig around ‘em, and trim ‘em up, and fertilize ‘em one more time for the last time; the end is near. And if these last grafts take root and produce the natural fruit, then you better prepare the way for ‘em to grow.
And as they start to grow, you’ll clear away them branches that bring bad fruit, based on the good ones’ strength and how big they are; don’t clear ‘em all away at once, or the roots might get too strong for the graft and it’ll perish and I’ll lose the trees of my vineyard.
‘Cause it pains me to see my vineyard trees take a dive; so y’all will clear away the bad as the good comes in, to keep the roots and tops equally strong, until the good outshines the bad, and the bad gets chopped down and tossed in the fire, so they don’t clutter the ground in my vineyard; and that’s how I’ll clear out the bad from my vineyard.
And the branches of the natural tree, I’m gonna graft back in that natural tree;
And the branches of the natural tree, I’ll stick into the natural branches of the tree; and this’ll bring ‘em back together again, so they can bear the natural fruit and be one.
And the bad’s gonna be tossed away, even out of all the land in my vineyard; ‘cause I’m only gonna prune my vineyard this once.
Then the Lord of the vineyard sent his servant, and the servant went and did just what the Lord told him and brought back some other workers; and they were few.
And the Lord of the vineyard said to ‘em, “Go on now, and work in the vineyard with all your might. ‘Cause this is the last time I’ll nourish my vineyard; the end is gettin’ real close, and the season is comin’ up fast; if y’all work hard with me, you’ll have joy from the fruit I’ll put away for myself ’til the time comes.”
So the servants went and worked hard; and the Lord of the vineyard worked with ‘em too; and they followed all the commands from the Lord of the vineyard in every little thing.
And the natural fruit started comin' back in the vineyard; and the natural branches were growin’ strong and doin’ real well; and them wild branches started gettin’ plucked off and tossed away; and they kept the roots and tops equal in strength.
So they toiled diligently based on what the Lord of the vineyard commanded, until all the bad had been cleared out of the vineyard, and the Lord had kept it safe so the trees could produce natural fruit, and they became like one big happy family; and the fruits were equal; and the Lord of the vineyard kept for himself the precious natural fruit he had since the beginning.
And when the Lord of the vineyard saw that his fruit was good and that his vineyard was no longer corrupt, he called his servants and said, “Look here, for this last time we’ve been nourished in my vineyard; and you see that I’ve done as I willed; and I’ve saved the natural fruit, and it’s good, just like it always was. And blessed are you; ‘cause you’ve been workin’ hard alongside me in my vineyard, keepin’ my commandments, and bringin’ back the natural fruit, so my vineyard ain’t gone rogue no more, and the bad’s been cleared out; you’ll rejoice with me ‘cause of the fruit of my vineyard.
For, for a good long while, I’ll be stashin’ away the fruit of my vineyard for myself for the coming season that’s speedily closin’ in; and for the last time, I’ve taken care of my vineyard, pruned it, dug around it, and fertilized it; now I’ll lay up for myself of the fruit, for a long time, based on what I’ve said.
And when the time rolls around that evil fruit makes its way back into my vineyard, then I’ll gather up the good and the bad; and I’ll keep the good for myself, and the bad I’ll toss away to its own place. And then the season comes and the end shows up; and I’ll see to it that my vineyard gets burned with fire.
