Well, after a good spell of time, there strolled into town a fella by the name of Sherem, and he was among the folks of Nephi.
Now, this fella started preachin' to everybody, sayin' that there ain't no such thing as Christ. He spun a bunch of sweet talk that tickled the ears of the crowd, hopin' to unravel the whole doctrine of Christ.
He worked real hard tryin' to pull folks away from their beliefs, and he sure did sway a whole mess of 'em; and knowin' I, Jacob, had faith in that there Christ who was comin’, he was lookin' for any chance to chat with me.
Sherem was pretty sharp, had himself a solid grasp of the folks' lingo, and could dish out plenty of charm and a whole lotta smooth words, all thanks to the devil’s handiwork.
He thought he could shake my faith up a bit, even with all them revelations and the miracles I’d seen, 'cause I’d truly seen angels, and they’d helped me out. I had also heard the Lord's voice talkin' to me time and time again; so I wasn't budging none.
So, he came up to me, and this is how he laid it out: "Brother Jacob, I’ve been lookin' for a chance to chat with ya; I’ve heard you've been runnin' around preachin' what folks call the gospel, or the doctrine of Christ."
And I reckon you’ve led a whole heap of folks away, twistin’ God’s true path and not keepin' the law of Moses, which is the right way; turnin’ the law into worship of somethin' you say is comin' many years down the road. Now listen here, I, Sherem, am tellin’ you straight up that’s blasphemy; no man can know about such things, 'cause he can’t predict the future. And that’s how Sherem went up against me.
But lemme tell ya, the Lord God filled my soul with His Spirit, and I was able to put him in his place with every word he said.
I asked him, "Ain't ya denyin' that there Christ who's comin'?" And he replied, "If there was a Christ, I wouldn't argue with ya; but I reckon there ain't no Christ, never has been, and never will be."
So I asked him, "Do you believe the scriptures?” And he said, “Well, sure.”
And I said, “Then you ain't really gettin' 'em; 'cause they truly speak of Christ. I'm tellin' ya that none of the prophets wrote or prophesied without talkin' 'bout this Christ."
And hold onto your hat—there’s more! I've seen and heard these truths myself, made clear to me by the Holy Ghost; so I know if there ain't no atonement made, all mankind's gonna be lost.
Then he asked me to show him a sign by that Holy Ghost power I know so much about.
And I said, “What in the world am I that I should test God by askin’ Him for a sign on what ya already know to be true? But you know what? You’ll reject it ‘cause you’re with the devil. But let the Lord’s will be done; if He wants to smite you, let that be a sign for ya that He’s got power both in heaven and on earth; and that Christ’s gonna come. So let the Lord’s will be done, not mine."
Well, I had just finished sayin' that when the Lord's power fell all over Sherem, and he hit the ground hard. And he was out cold for several days.
Eventually, he told the people, “Gather ‘round tomorrow, ‘cause it looks like I’m fixin’ to kick the bucket; and I wanna talk to y’all before I go.”
And sure enough, when the next day rolled around, the crowd had gathered, and he spoke real clear-like, denouncin' all the stuff he’d been preachin’, confessin' the Christ, the power of the Holy Ghost, and the angels comin’ to minister.
He laid it all out to them, sayin’ he’d been tricked by the devil’s power. He talked about hell, eternity, and everlasting punishment.
He admitted, “I’m scared I might’ve committed the unforgivable sin ‘cause I’ve lied to God; I denied Christ, and claimed I believed the scriptures, which clearly point to Him. And since I’ve lied to God, I’m really afraid my fate’s gonna be terrible, but I confess it to God.”
Right after sayin’ that, he could no longer speak, and he breathed his last.
When the crowd saw him talkin’ like this right before he passed, they were totally blown away; the power of God came down on ‘em, and they were so overcome they fell down too.
Now, this whole situation made me, Jacob, feel real good, ‘cause I had prayed to my Father up in heaven, and He heard me and answered my prayers.
Then peace and the love of God came back to the people; they started searchin’ the scriptures again and didn’t listen to that wicked man no more.
A whole bunch of ideas were cooked up to bring the Lamanites back to the truth, but it all went south, ‘cause they just loved fightin’ and spillin' blood, and they held a deep-seated hatred for us, their own kin. They kept tryin’ to take us out with the might of their armies.
So, the Nephites fortified themselves against ‘em, armed to the teeth and puttin’ their trust in the God and rock of their salvation; and they managed to come out on top against their foes.
Now, I, Jacob, started feelin’ my years weighin' on me; and since the record of the people was keepin' on those other plates of Nephi, I’m wrapin’ up this account here, just sayin' I’ve written down the best I know how, and time just slipped on by for us, our lives flashin’ before our eyes like a dream, us being a lonely and solemn people, wanderers, kicked outta Jerusalem, born into tribulation, lost in the wilderness, and hated by our kin, which led to our share of wars and fights; so we spent our days mournin'.
And I, Jacob, figured it was my time to meet my maker; so I told my son Enos, “Take these plates.” And I filled him in on what my brother Nephi had told me, and he promised he’d follow my lead. Now I’ll put down my pen on these plates, which ain’t been much written on, and to the reader I say farewell, hopin' some of my people might read my words. So long, brethren.
